[Song 1: N.Y. State of Mind]
Yeah, yeah
Ayo, Black—it's time, word (Word, it's time, man)
Yeah, it's time, man (Aight, man, begin)
Yeah—straight out the fuckin' dungeons of rap
Where fake niggas don't make it back
I don't know how to start this shit, yo—now;

Rappers: I monkey-flip 'em with the funky rhythm I be kickin'
Musician, inflictin' composition of pain
I'm like Scarface sniffin' cocaine
Holdin' an M16, see, with the pen I'm extreme
Now, bullet holes left in my peepholes
I'm suited up with street clothes
Hand me a .9 and I'll defeat foes
Y'all know my steelo, with or without the airplay
I keep some E&J, sittin' bent up in the stairway
Or either on the corner bettin' Grants with the cee-lo champs
Laughin' at baseheads, tryna sell some broken amps
G-packs get off quick, forever niggas talk shit
Reminiscin' about the last time the task force flipped
Niggas be runnin' through the block shootin'
Time to start the revolution, catch a body, head for Houston
Once they caught us off-guard, the MAC-10 was in the grass, and
I ran like a cheetah, with thoughts of an assassin
Picked the MAC up, told brothers, "Back up!"—the MAC spit
Lead was hittin' niggas, one ran, I made him backflip
Heard a few chicks scream, my arm shook, couldn't look
Gave another squeeze, heard it click, "Yo, my shit is stuck!"
Tried to cock it, it wouldn't shoot, now I'm in danger
Finally pulled it back and saw three bullets caught up in the chamber
So, now I'm jettin' to the buildin' lobby
And it was full of children, prob'ly couldn't see as high as I be
(So, what you sayin'?) It's like the game ain't the same
Got younger niggas pullin' the triggers, bringin' fame to their name
And claim some corners, crews without guns are goners
In broad daylight, stick-up kids, they run up on us
.45’s and gauges, MAC's in fact
Same niggas will catch you back-to-back, snatchin' your cracks
In black, there was a snitch on the block gettin' niggas knocked
So hold your stash 'til the coke price drop
I know this crackhead who said she gotta smoke nice rock
And if it's good, she'll bring you customers and measuring pots
But yo, you gotta slide on a vacation
Inside information keeps large niggas erasin' and their wives basin'
It drops deep as it does in my breath
I never sleep, huh, 'cause sleep is the cousin of death
Beyond the walls of intelligence, life is defined
I think of crime when I'm in a New York State of Mind

New York state of mind
New York state of mind
New York state of mind
New York state of mind

Be havin' dreams that I'm a gangsta, drinkin' Moëts, holdin' TECs
Makin' sure the cash came correct, then I stepped
Investments in stock, sewin' up the blocks to sell rocks
Winnin' gunfights with mega-cops
But just a nigga walkin' with his finger on the trigger
Make enough figures until my pockets get bigger
I ain't the type of brother made for you to start testin'
Give me a Smith & Wesson, I'll have niggas undressin'
Thinkin' of cash flow, Buddha, and shelter
Whenever frustrated, I'ma hijack Delta
In the PJ's, my blend tape plays, bullets are strays
Young bitches is grazed, each block is like a maze
Full of black rats trapped, plus the Island is packed
From what I hear in all the stories when my peoples come back, black
I'm livin' where the nights is jet-black
The fiends fight to get crack, I just max, I dream I can sit back
And lamp like Capone, with drug scripts sewn
Or the legal luxury life, rings flooded with stones, homes
I got so many rhymes, I don't think I'm too sane
Life is parallel to Hell, but I must maintain
And be prosperous, though we live dangerous
Cops could just arrest me, blamin' us; we're held like hostages
It's only right that I was born to use mics
And the stuff that I write is even tougher than dykes
I'm takin' rappers to a new plateau, through rap slow
My rhymin' is a vitamin held without a capsule
The smooth criminal on beat breaks
Never put me in your box if your shit eats tapes
The city never sleeps, full of villains and creeps
That's where I learned to do my hustle, had to scuffle with freaks
I'm a addict for sneakers, 20's of Buddha and bitches with beepers
In the streets I can greet ya, about blunts I teach ya
Inhale deep like the words of my breath
I never sleep, 'cause sleep is the cousin of death
I lay puzzled as I backtrack to earlier times
Nothing's equivalent to the New York state of mind

New York state of mind
New York state of mind
New York state of mind
New York state of mind

"Nasty Nas—"

[Song 2: Ether]
Fuck Jay-Z
What's up, niggas?
Ayo, I know you ain't talkin' about me, dawg (You? What?)
Fuck Jay-Z
You been on my dick, nigga
You love my style, nigga (Uh, uh, uh, uh)
Fuck Jay-Z

(I) Fuck with your soul like ether
(Will) Teach you, the king, you know you
(Not) God's Son across the belly
(Lose) I'll prove you lost already (Uh)

Brace yourself for the main event, y'all impatiently waitin'
It's like a AIDS test, what's the results?
Not positive, who's the best, Pac, Nas and B.I.G.?
Ain't no best, east, west, north, south, flossed out
Greetings, I embrace y'all with napalm
Blows up, no guts left, chest, face gone
How could Nas be garbage? Semi-autos at your cartilage (Uh)
Burner at the side of your dome, come out of my throne
I got this locked since '91 (Uh), I am the truest
Name a rapper that I ain't influenced
Gave y'all chapters, but now I keep my eyes on the Judas
With Hawaiian Sophie fame, kept my name in his music, check it

(I) Fuck with your soul like ether
(Will) Teach you, the king, you know you
(Not) God's Son across the belly (Haha)
(Lose) I'll prove you lost already (Uh)

Ayo, pass me the weed (Tsk, there you go)
Put my ashes out on these niggas, man (Ain't no doubt)
Ayo, you faggots, y'all kneel and kiss the motherfuckin' ring

(I) Fuck with your soul like ether
(Will) Teach you, the king, you know you
(Not) God's Son across the belly
(Lose) I'll prove you lost already

I've been fucked over, left for dead, dissed and forgotten
Luck ran out, they hoped that I'd be gone, stiff and rotten
Y'all just piss on me, shit on me, spit on my grave (Uh)
Talk about me, laugh behind my back, but in my face
Y'all some well-wishin' (Bitch niggas), friendly-actin', envy-hidin' snakes
With your hands out for my money, man, how much can I take?
When these streets keep callin', heard it when I was sleep
That this Gay-Z and Cock-a-Fella Records wanted beef (What?)
Started cockin' up my weapon, slowly loadin' up this ammo
To explode it on a camel (Haha) and his soldiers I can handle
This for dolo and his manuscript just sound stupid
When KRS already made a album called 
Blueprint
 (Dick)
First Biggie's your man, then you got the nerve to say
That you better than B.I.G., dick-suckin' lips (Ha)
Why don't you let the late, great veteran live?

I will
Not lose (God's son across the belly, I'll prove you lost already), uh
The king is back
Where my crown at? (Ill Will)
Ill Will, rest in peace, let's do it, niggas

(I) Fuck with your soul like ether
(Will) Teach you, the king, you know you
(Not) God's Son across the belly
(Lose) I'll prove you lost already

Y'all niggas deal with emotions like bitches
What's sad is I love you 'cause you're my brother, you traded your soul for riches
My child, I've watched you grow up to be famous
And now I smile like a proud dad watchin' his only son that made it
You seem to be only concerned with dissin' women
Were you abused as a child? Scared to smile, they called you ugly?
Well, life is harsh, hug me, don't reject me
Or make records to disrespect me, blatant or indirectly
In '88 you was gettin' chased through your building
Callin' my crib and I ain't even give you my numbers
All I did was give you a style for you to run with
Smilin' in my face, glad to break bread with the God
Wearin' Jaz' chains, no TECs, no cash, no cars
No jail bars, Jigga, no pies, no case
Just Hawaiian shirts, hangin' with little Chase
You a fan, a phony, a fake, a pussy, a Stan
I'll still whip your ass, you thirty-six in a karate class?
You Tae-Bo ho, tryna work it out, you tryna get brolic?
Ask me if I'm tryna kick knowledge?
Nah, I'm tryna kick the shit you need to learn, though
That ether, that shit that make your soul burn slow (Burn slow)
Is he Dame Diddy, Dame Daddy or Dame Dummy?
Oh, I get it, you Biggie and he's Puffy (Ill)
Rocafella died of AIDS, that was the end of his chapter
And that's the guy y'all chose to name your company after?
Put it together, I rock hoes, y'all rock fellas
And now y'all tryna take my spot, fellas?
Feel these hot rocks, fellas, put you in a dry spot, fellas
In a pine box with nine shots from my Glock, fellas
Foxy got you hot 'cause you kept your face in her puss
What you think, you gettin' girls now 'cause of your looks? (Girls, girls, girls, haha)
Negro, please, ha, you no-mustache-havin'
With whiskers like a rat, compared to Beans, you wack
And your man stabbed Un and made you take the blame
You ass, went from Jaz to hangin' with Kane, to Irv, to B.I.G
And Eminem murdered you on your own shit
You a dick-ridin' faggot, you love the attention
Queens niggas run you niggas, ask Russell Simmons, ha
R-O-C get gunned up and clapped quick
J.J. Evans get gunned up and clapped quick
Your whole damn record label, gunned up and clapped quick
Shawn Carter to Jay-Z, damn, you on Jaz dick
So little Shawny's gettin' gunned up and clapped quick
How much of Biggie's rhymes is gon' come out your fat lips? (Nigga)
Wanted to be on every last one of my classics
You pop shit, apologize, nigga, just ask Kiss

[Song 3: Life’s a Bitch]
Ayo, what's up, what's up?
Let's keep it real, son, count this money
You know what I'm sayin'? (
Yeah, yeah
)
Ayo, put the Grants over there in the safe
You know what I'm sayin'?
'Cause we spendin' these Jacksons (
Yeah, yeah
)
The Washingtons go to wifey, you know how that go
I'm sayin' that's what this is all about, right?
Clothes, bankrolls, and hoes
You know what I'm sayin'?
Yo, then what, man, what?!

Visualizin' the realism of life in actuality
Fuck who's the baddest, a person's status depends on salary
And my mentality is money-orientated
I'm destined to live the dream for all my peeps who never made it
'Cause yeah, we were beginners in the hood as Five Percenters
But somethin' must've got in us, 'cause all of us turned to sinners
Now some restin' in peace and some are sittin' in San Quentin
Others, such as myself, are tryin' to carry on tradition
Keepin' this Schweppervescence street ghetto essence inside us
'Cause it provides us with the proper insight to guide us
Even though we know, somehow we all gotta go
But as long as we leavin' thievin', we'll be leavin' with some kind of dough
So, until that day we expire and turn to vapors
Me and my capers will be somewhere stackin' plenty papers
Keepin' it real, packin' steel, gettin' high
'Cause life's a bitch and then you die

Life's a bitch and then you die, that's why we get high
'Cause you never know when you're gonna go
Life's a bitch and then you die, that's why we puff lye
'Cause you never know when you're gonna go
Life's a bitch and then you die, that's why we get high
'Cause you never know when you're gonna go
Life's a bitch and then you die, that's why we puff lye

I woke up early on my born day; I'm twenty, it's a blessin'
The essence of adolescence leaves my body, now I'm fresh and
My physical frame is celebrated 'cause I made it
One quarter through life, some godly-like thing created
Got rhymes 365 days annual, plus some
Load up the mic and bust one, cuss while I pus from
My skull, 'cause it's pain in my brain vein, money maintain
Don't go against the grain, simple and plain
When I was young at this I used to do my thing hard
Robbin' foreigners, take they wallets, they jewels and rip they green cards
Dipped to the projects, flashin' my quick cash
And got my first piece of ass, smokin' blunts with hash
Now it's all about cash in abundance
Niggas I used to run with is rich or doin' years in the hundreds
I switched my motto; instead of sayin', "Fuck tomorrow!"
That buck that bought a bottle could've struck the lotto
Once I stood on the block, loose cracks produce stacks
I cooked up and cut small pieces to get my loot back
Time is illmatic, keep static like wool fabric
Pack a 4-matic to crack your whole cabbage

Life's a bitch and then you die, that's why we get high
'Cause you never know when you're gonna go
Life's a bitch and then you die, that's why we puff lye
'Cause you never know when you're gonna go
Life's a bitch and then you die, that's why we get high
'Cause you never know when you're gonna go
Life's a bitch and then you die, that's why we puff lye
'Cause you never know when you're gonna go
Life's a bitch and then you die

[Song 4: Patience (Sabali)]
Here we are
Here we are
Yeah
This one right here is for the people

Sabali, sabali, sabali yonkote
Sabali, sabali, sabali kiye
Ni kêra môgô
Sabali, sabali, sabali yonkote
Sabali, sabali, sabali kiye
Ni kêra môgô

Hey yo D
Let's go all the way in on this one

Some of the smartest dummies
Can't read the language of Egyptian mummies
An' a fly go a moon
And can't find food for the starving tummies
Pay no mind to the youths
Cause it's not like the future depends on it
But save the animals in the zoo
Cause the chimpanzee dem a make big money
This is how the media pillages
On the TV the picture is
Savages in villages
And the scientist still can't explain the pyramids, huh
Evangelists making a living on the videos of ribs of the little kids
Stereotyping the image of the images
And this is what the image is
You buy a khaki pants
And all of a sudden you say a Indiana Jones
An' a thief out the gold and thief out the scrolls and even the buried bones
Some of the worst paparazzis I've ever seen and I ever known
Put the worst on display so the world can see
And that's all they will ever show
So the ones in the West
Will never move East
And feel like they could be at home
Dem get tricked by the beast
But a where dem ago flee when the monster is fully grown?
Solomonic linage whe dem still can't defeat and them coulda never clone
My spiritual DNA that print in my soul and I will forever Own Lord

Sabali, sabali, sabali yonkote
Sabali, sabali, sabali kiye
Ni kêra môgô
Sabali, sabali, sabali yonkote
Sabali, sabali, sabali kiye
Ni kêra môgô

Yeah, Sabali. Thats patience. That's what the old folks told me
Discovering the World before this World. A World buried in time
Uncover with rhymes. It gets no realer

Huh, we born not knowing, are we born knowing all?
We growing wiser, are we just growing tall?
Can you read thoughts? can you read palms?
Huh, can you predict the future? can you see storms, coming?
The Earth was flat if you went too far you would fall off
Now the Earth is round
If the shape change again everybody woulda start laugh
The average man can't prove of most of the things
That he chooses to speak of
And still won't research and find out
The root of the truth that you seek of
Scholars teach in Universities and claim that they're smart and cunning
Tell them find a cure when we sneeze
And that's when their nose start running
And the rich get stitched up, when we get cut
Man a heal dem broken bones in the bush with the wet mud
Can you read signs? can you read stars?
Can you make peace? can you fight war?
Can you milk cows, even though you drive cars? huh
Can you survive? Against all odds, now?

Sabali, sabali, sabali yonkote
Sabali, sabali, sabali kiye
Ni kêra môgô
Sabali, sabali, sabali yonkote
Sabali, sabali, sabali kiye
Ni kêra môgô

It's crazy when you feed people the truth you don't know how they're gonna react
You're scared of wrong doers, people that just ignorant
You're scared of the truth, be patient for now

Who wrote the Bible? Who wrote the Qur'an?
And was it a lightning storm
That gave birth to the Earth
And then dinosaurs were born? damn
Who made up words? Who made up numbers?
And what kind of spell is mankind under?
Everything on the planet we preserve and can it
Microwaved it and try it
No matter what we'll survive it
What's hue? What's man? What's human?
Anything along the land we consuming
Eatin', deletin', ruin
Trying to get paper
Gotta have land, gotta have acres
So I can sit back like Jack Nicholson
Watch niggas play the game like the Lakers
In a world full of 52 fakers
Gypsies, seances, mystical prayers
You superstitious? throw salt over your shoulders
Make a wish for the day cuz
Like somebody got a doll of me
Stickin' needles in my arteries
But I can't feel it
Sometimes it's like 'part of me, but I got a real big spirit'
I'm fearless, I'm fearless
Don't you try and grab hold of my soul
It's like a military soldier since seven years old
I held real dead bodies in my arms
Felt their body turn cold, oh
Why we born in the first place
If this is how we gotta go?
Damn

This goes to all the wisdom and knowledge seekers of the World
Sabali, Patience, yeah

[Song 5: The World Is Yours]
[Chorus: Pete Rock + 
Nas
]
(It's yours)
Whose world is this?
The world is yours, the world is yours
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine—whose world is this?
(It's yours)
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine—whose world is this?
The world is yours, the world is yours
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine—whose world is this?

I sip the Dom P, watchin' 
Gandhi
 'til I'm charged, then
Writin' in my book of rhymes, all the words past the margin
To hold the mic I’m throbbin', mechanical movement
Understandable smooth shit that murderers move with
The thief's theme, play me at night, they won't act right
The fiend of hip-hop has got me stuck like a crack pipe
The mind activation, react like I'm facin'
Time like Pappy Mason, with pens I'm embracin'
Wipe the sweat off my dome, spit the phlegm on the streets
Suede Timbs on my feets makes my cipher complete
Whether cruisin' in a Sikh's cab or Montero Jeep
I can't call it, the beats make me fallin' asleep
I keep fallin', but never fallin' six feet deep
I'm out for presidents to represent me (Say what?)
I'm out for presidents to represent me (Say what?)
I'm out for dead presidents to represent me
[Chorus: Pete Rock + 
Nas
]
Whose world is this?
The world is yours, the world is yours
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine—whose world is this?
The world is yours, the world is yours
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine—whose world is this?
(It's yours)
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine—whose world is this?
The world is yours, the world is yours
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine—whose world is this?

To my man Ill Will, God bless your life (It's yours)
To my peoples throughout Queens, God bless your life
I trip, we box up crazy bitches, aimin' guns in all my baby pictures
Beef with housing police, release scriptures that's maybe Hitler's
Yet I'm the mild, money-gettin' style, rollin' foul
The versatile, honey-stickin', wild, golden child
Dwellin' in the Rotten Apple, you get tackled
Or caught by the devil's lasso, shit is a hassle
There's no days for broke days when sellin' smoke pays
While all the old folks pray to Jesús, soakin' they sins in trays
Of holy water, odds against Nas is slaughter
Thinkin' a word best describin' my life to name my daughter
My strength, my son, the star will be my resurrection
Born in correction, all the wrong shit I did, he'll lead in right direction
How you livin'? Large or broke on charge cards and mediocre?
You flippin' coke or playin' spit, spades, and strip poker?
[Chorus: Pete Rock + 
Nas
]
(It's yours)
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine—whose world is this?
The world is yours, the world is yours
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine—whose world is this?
(It's yours)
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine—whose world is this?
Yo, the world is yours, the world is yours
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine—whose world is this?
(It's yours)

Break it down
It's yours, it's yours
It's yours, it's yours

I'm the young city bandit, hold myself down single-handed
For murder raps, I kick my thoughts alone, get remanded
Born alone, die alone, no crew to keep my crown or throne
I'm deep by sound alone, caved inside, 1,000 miles from home
I need a new nigga for this black cloud to follow
‘Cause while it's over me it's too dark to see tomorrow
Tryin' to maintain, I flip, fill the clip to the tip
Picturin' my peeps not eatin' can make my heartbeat skip
And I'm amped up, they locked the champ up, even my brain's in handcuffs
Headed for Indiana, stabbin' women like the Phantom
The crew is lampin' Big Willie style
Check the chip-toothed smile, plus I profile wild
Stash loot in fly clothes, burnin' dollars to light my stoge
Walk the blocks with a bop, checkin' dames, plus the games people play
Bust the problems of the world today
[Chorus: Pete Rock + 
Nas
]
(It's yours)
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine—whose world is this?
The world is yours, the world is yours
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine—whose world is this?
(It's yours)
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine—whose world is this? (
Yeah
)
The world is yours, the world is yours
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine—whose world is this?
(It's yours)

(Break it down) Yeah, aight
To everybody in Queens, the foundation (It's yours)
The world is yours
To everybody uptown, yo, the world is yours (It's yours)
The world is yours
To everybody in Brooklyn
Y'all know the world is yours (It's yours)
The world is yours
Everybody in Mount Vernon, the world is yours (It's yours)
Long Island, yo, the world is yours (It's yours)
Staten Island, yeah, the world is yours (It's yours)
South Bronx, the world is yours (It's yours)
Aight

[Song 6: The Message]
Fake thug, no love, you get the slug
CB4 Gusto, your luck low, I didn't know 'til I was drunk though
You freak niggas played out, get fucked and ate out
Prostitute turned bitch, I got the gauge out
96 ways I made out
Montana way, the Good F-E-L-L-A, verbal AK spray
Dipped attache, jump out the Range, empty out the ashtray
A glass of 'Zé make a man Cassius Clay
Red dot plots, murder schemes, 32 shotguns
Regulate with my thuns, 17 rocks gleam from one ring
Then let me let y'all niggas know one thing
There's one life, one love, so there can only be one King
The highlights of livin', Vegas-style, roll dice in linen
Antera spinnin' on Millenniums
20G bets I'm winnin' 'em, threats I'm sendin' 'em
Lex with TV sets—the minimum, ill sex adrenaline
Party with villains, a case of Demi-Sec to chase the Henny
Wet any clique with the semi TEC, who want it?
Diamonds I flaunt it, chickenheads flock, I lace 'em
Fried, broiled with basil, taste 'em
Crack they legs way out of formation
It's horizontal how I have 'em fuckin' me in the Benz wagon
Can it be Vanity from 
Last Dragon
? Grab your gun, it's on though
Shit is grimy, real niggas buck in broad daylight
With the broke MAC, it won't spray right
Don't give a fuck who they hit as long as the drama's lit
Yo, overnight thugs bug ‘cause they ain't promised shit
Hungry-ass hooligans stay on that piranha shit

I never sleep, 'cause sleep is the cousin of death
I ain't the type of brother made for you to start testin'
I never sleep, 'cause sleep is the cousin of death
I ain't the type of brother made for you to start testin'
I never sleep, 'cause sleep is the cousin of death
I ain't the type of brother made for you to start testin'
I never sleep, 'cause sleep is the cousin of death
I ain't the type of brother made for you to start testin'

I peeped you frontin'
I was in the Jeep, sunk in the seat, tinted, with heat, beats bumpin'
Across the street, you was wildin', talkin' about how you ran the Island in '89
Layin' up, playin' the yard with crazy shine
I cocked the baby 9, that nigga gravy mine, clanked him
What was he thinkin' on my corner when it's pay-me time?
Dug 'em, you owe me, cousin, somethin' told me "Plug him!"
So dumb, felt my leg burn, then it got numb
Spun around and shot one, heard shots and dropped, son
Caught a hot one, somebody take this biscuit 'fore the cops come
Then they came, askin' me my name, what the fuck?
I got stitched up, it went through, left the hospital that same night, what
Got my gat back, time to backtrack
I had the drop, so how the fuck I get clapped?
Black was in the Jeep watchin', all he seen speed by was a brown Datsun
And yo, nobody in my hood got one
That clown nigga's through, blazin' at his crew daily
The 'Bridge touched me up severely, hear me?
So when I rhyme, it's sincerely yours
Be lightin' L's, sippin' Coors on all floors in project halls
Contemplatin' war, niggas I was cool with before
We used to score together Uptown, coppin' the raw
But, uh—a thug changes, and love changes
And best friends become strangers (Word up)

Y'a–Y'all know my steelo
Ther–Ther–Ther–Ther–There ain't an army that could strike back
Y'a–Y'all know my steelo
Ther–Ther–Ther–Ther–There ain't an army that could strike back
Y'a–Y'all know my steelo
Ther–Ther–Ther–There ain't an army that could strike back
Y'a–Y'all know my steelo
There ain't an army that could strike back

Thug niggas
Yo, to them thug niggas gettin' it on in the world, you know?
To them niggas that's locked down
Doin' they thing, survivin', ya know'm sayin'?
To my thorough niggas, New York and worldwide
Yo, to the Queensbridge Militia
'9-6 shit, The Firm clique
Illmatic, nigga, It Was Written though
It's been a long time comin'
Y'all fake niggas, tryin' to copy
Better come with the real though, fake-ass niggas, yo
(They throw us slugs, we throwin' them back, what)
Bring the shit, man! Live, man!
(Fuck that, son, word up) '9-6 shit

[Song 7: It Ain’t Hard to Tell]
It ain't hard to tell, I excel, then prevail
The mic is contacted, I attract clientele
My mic check is life or death, breathin' a sniper's breath
I exhale the yellow smoke of buddha through righteous steps
Deep like 
The Shining
, sparkle like a diamond
Sneak a Uzi on the island in my army jacket linin'
Hit the Earth like a comet—invasion!
Nas is like the Afrocentric Asian: half-man, half-amazin'
‘Cause in my physical I can express through song
Delete stress like Motrin, then extend strong
I drink Moët with Medusa, give her shotguns in Hell
From the spliff that I lift and inhale; it ain't hard to tell

The buddha monk's in your trunk, turn the bass up
Not stories by Aesop
Place your loot up, parties I shoot up
Nas, I analyze, drop a jew-el, inhale from the L
School a fool well, you feel it like Braille
It ain't hard to tell, I kick a skill, like Shaquille holds a pill
Vocabulary spills, I'm Ill plus Matic
I freak beats, slam it, like Iron Sheik
Jam like a TEC with correct techniques
So analyze me, surprise me, but can't magmatize me
Scannin' while you're plannin' ways to sabotage me
I leave 'em froze, like heroin in your nose
Nas will rock well; it ain't hard to tell

This rhythmatic explosion
Is what your frame of mind has chosen
I'll leave your brain stimulated, niggas is frozen
Speak with criminal slang, begin like a violin
End like Leviathan, it's deep? Well, let me try again
Wisdom be leakin' out my grapefruit, troop
I dominate break loops, givin' mics men-e-strual cycles
Street's disciple, I rock beats that's mega trifle
And groove even smoother than moves by Villanova
You're still a soldier, I'm like Sly Stone in 
Cobra
Packin' like a Rasta in the weed spot
Vocals will squeeze Glocks
MCs eavesdrop, though they need not to sneak
My poetry's deep, I never fell
Nas' raps should be locked in a cell; it ain't hard to tell

[Song 8: One Love]
Word is bond, you got six minutes on that jack kid or shit is real
Ayo, ayo, ayo, ayo
You gon' check shit out, man
Ayo god man, give me a cigarette
Yo here you go, here you go, here you go
Check it out, man, check out what I got here, man
What is that, what? What's that?
Yo it's a letter I got from my man Nas, man
Word is bond, yo yo
What it say, kid?

What up, kid? I know shit is rough doin' your bid
When the cops came, you shoulda slid to my crib
Fuck it, black, no time for lookin' back, it's done
Plus, congratulations, you know you got a son
I heard he looks like ya, why don't your lady write ya?
Told her she should visit, that's when she got hyper
Flippin', talkin' about he acts too rough
He didn't listen, he be riffin' while I'm tellin' him stuff
I was like, "Yeah," shorty don't care, she a snake too
Fuckin' with them niggas from that fake crew that hate you
But yo, guess who got shot in the dome-piece?
Jerome's niece, on her way home from Jones Beach
It's bugged—plus little Rob is sellin' drugs on the dime
Hangin' out with young thugs that all carry nines
And night time is more trife than ever
What up with Cormega? Did you see him? Are y'all together?
If so, then hold the fort down, represent to the fullest
Say what's up to Herb, Ice and Bullet
I left a half a hundred in your commissary
You was my nigga when push came to shove (One what?) One love!

One love, one love, one love, one love
One love, one love, one love, one love
One love, one love, one love, one love
One love, one love, one love, one love

Dear Born, you'll be out soon, stay strong
Out in New York, the same shit is goin' on
The crackheads stalkin', loudmouths is talkin'
Hold, check out the story yesterday when I was walkin'
That nigga you shot last year tried to appear like he hurtin' somethin'
Word to mother, I heard him frontin'
And he be pumpin' on your block, your man gave him your Glock
And now they run together — what up, son? Whatever
Since I'm on the streets, I'ma put it to a cease
But I heard you blew a nigga with a ox for the phone piece
Wildin' on the Island, but now in Elmira
Better chill, 'cause them niggas will put that ass on fire
Last time you wrote, you said they tried you in the showers
But maintain, when you come home, the corner's ours
On the reals, all these crab niggas know the deal
When we start the revolution all they probably do is squeal
But chill, see you on the next V.I
I gave your mom dukes loot for kicks, plus sent you flicks
Your brother's buckwildin' in 4-Main, he wrote me
He might beat his case, 'til he come home, I'll play it lowkey
So stay civilized, time flies, though incarcerated, your mind dive
I hate it when your moms cries
It kinda makes me want to murder, for real-a
I even got a mask and gloves to bust slugs, but one love

One love, one love, one love, one love
One love, one love, one love, one love
One love, one love, one love, one love
One love, one love, one love, one love

Sometimes I sit back with a Buddha sack
Mind's in another world, thinkin', "How can we exist through the facts?"
Written in school textbooks, bibles, et cetera
Fuck a school lecture, the lies get me vexed-er
So I be ghost from my projects
I take my pen and pad for the weekend, hittin' L's while I'm sleepin'
A two-day stay, you may say I needed time alone
To relax my dome, no phone, left the nine at home
You see the streets had me stressed somethin' terrible
Fuckin' with them corners have a nigga up in Bellevue
Or HDM, hit with numbers from eight to ten
A future in a maximum state pen is grim
So I comes back home, nobody's out but Shorty Doo-Wop
Rollin' two phillies together, in the 'Bridge, we call 'em "oo-wops"
He said, "Nas, niggas caught me bustin' off the roof
So I wear a bulletproof and pack a black tre deuce"
He inhaled so deep, shut his eyes like he was 'sleep
Started coughin', one eye peeked to watch me speak
I sat back like The Mack, my army suit was black
We was chillin' on these benches where he pumped his loose cracks
I took the L when he passed it, this little bastard
Keeps me blasted and starts talkin' mad shit
I had to school him, told him don't let niggas fool him
'Cause when the pistol blows, the one that's murdered be the cool one
Tough luck when niggas are struck, families fucked up
Could have caught your man, but didn't look when you bucked up
Mistakes happen, so take heed, never bust up
At the crowd, catch him solo, make the right man bleed
Shorty's laugh was cold-blooded as he spoke so foul
Only 12, tryna tell me that he liked my style
Then I rose, wipin' the blunt's ash from my clothes
Then froze, only to blow the herb smoke through my nose
And told my little man I'ma ghost, I broze
Left some jewels in his skull that he can sell if he chose
Words of wisdom from Nas: Try to rise up above
Keep an eye out for Jake, shorty wop, one love

One love, one love, one love, one love
One love, one love, one love, one love
One love, one love, one love, one love
One love, one love, one love, one love

To all my niggas locked up
From Queensbridge and all over
And to my man Goon, one love
To my man Herb, one love
To my man Lake Luciano, one love
Can't forget my motherfuckin' heart, Big Bo, one love
(One love, one love, one love, one love)
To Oogie, yeah, one love
(One Love)

[Song 9: If I Ruled the World (Imagine That)]
Life
I wonder
Will it take me under?
I don't know

Imagine smokin' weed in the street without cops harassin'
Imagine goin' to court with no trial
Lifestyle, cruisin' blue Bahama waters
No welfare supporters, more conscious of the way we raise our daughters
Days are shorter, nights are colder
Feelin' like life is over, these snakes strike like a cobra
The world's hot, my son got knocked, evidently
It's elementary, they want us all gone eventually
Troopin' outta state for a plate of knowledge
If coke was cooked without the garbage, we'd all have the top dollars
Imagine everybody flashin' fashion. Designer clothes
Lacin' your clique up with diamond Roles
Your people holdin' dough, no parole, no rubbers
Goin raw, imagine law with no undercovers
Just some thoughts for the mind
I take a glimpse into time, watch the blimp read "The World Is Mine"

If I ruled the world (Imagine that)
I'd free all my sons (I love 'em, love 'em, baby)
Black diamonds and pearls (Could it be, if you could be mine, we'd both shine?)
If I ruled the world (Still livin' for today, in these last days and times)

The way to be: Paradise life, relaxin'
Black, Latino and Anglo-Saxon. Armani Exchange, the Range
Cash, Lost Tribe of Shabazz, free at last
Brand new whips to crash, then we laugh in a iller path
The Villa house is for the crew — how we do
Trees for breakfast. Dime sexes and Benz stretches
So many years of depression make me vision
The better livin', type of place to raise kids in
Open they eyes to the lies, history's told foul
But I'm as wise as the old owl, plus the Gold Child
Seein' things like I was controllin', clique rollin'
Trickin' six-digits on kicks and still holdin'
Trips to Paris, I'd civilize every savage
Give me one shot, I turn trife life to lavish
Political prisoners set free, stress free
No work release, purple M3's and jet skis
Feel the wind breeze in West Indies
I'd let Coretta Scott-King mayor the cities, and reverse fiends to Willies
It sound foul, but every girl I meet'd go down-town
I'd open every cell in Attica, send 'em to Africa (Africa)

If I ruled the world (
Imagine that
)
I'd free all my sons (I love 'em, love 'em, baby)
Black diamonds and pearls (Could it be, if you could be mine, we'd both shine?)
If I ruled the world (Still livin' for today, in these last days and times)

And then, we'll walk right up to the sun, hand in hand (Hand)
We'll walk right up to the sun, we won't land (Land)
We'll walk right up to the sun, hand in hand (Hand)
We'll walk right up to the sun, we won't land (Land)

You love to hear the story how the thugs live in worry
Ducked down in car seats, heat's mandatory
Runnin' from Jake, getting chased, hunger for papes
These are the breaks, many mistakes go down outta state
Wait, I had to let it marinate, we carry weight
Tryna get laced, flip the ace, stack the safe
Millionaire plan to keep the Gat with the cocked hammer
Makin' moves in Atlanta, back-and-forth scrambler
'Cause you could have all the chips, be poor or rich
Still, nobody want a nigga havin' shit
If I ruled the world and everything in it
Sky's the limit, I'd push a Q45 Infinit'
It wouldn't be no such thing as jealousies, or B Felony
Strictly livin' longevity to the destiny
I thought I'd never see, but reality struck
Better find out before your time's out, what the fuck?!

If I ruled the world (
Imagine that
)
I'd free all my sons (I love 'em, love 'em, baby)
Black diamonds and pearls (Could it be, if you could be mine, we'd both shine?)
If I ruled the world (Still livin' for today, in these last days and times)
If I ruled the world, if I ruled, if I ruled (Imagine that)
I'd free all my sons, if I ruled, if I ruled (I love 'em, love 'em, baby)
Black diamonds and pearls, black diamonds, black diamonds (Could it be, if you could be mine, we'd both shine?)
If I ruled the world (Still livin' for today, in these last days and times)

If I ruled the world (If I ruled, if I ruled)
I'd free all my sons (Black diamonds)
(I love 'em, love 'em, baby)
Black diamonds and pearls
If I ruled, if I ruled the world
If I ruled the world
(I love 'em, love 'em, baby)

[Song 10: Represent]
Represent, represent
Represent, represent
Represent, represent
Represent, represent

Straight up, shit is real
And any day could be your last in the jungle
Get murdered on a humble, guns'll blast, niggas tumble
The corners is the hot spot, full of mad criminals
Who don't care, guzzling beers
We all stare at the out-of-towners
(Ayo, yo, who that?) They better break North
Before we get the four pounders and take their face off
The streets is filled with undercovers, homicide chasing brothers
The D's on the roof tryin' to watch us and knock us
And killer coppers even come through in helicopters
I drink a little vodka, spark a L and hold a Glock for
The fronters, wannabe ill niggas and spot runners
Thinking it can't happen 'til I trap 'em and clap 'em
And leave 'em done, won't even run about gods
I don't believe in none of that shit, your facts are backwards
Nas is a rebel of the street corner
Pulling a TEC out the dresser; police got me under pressure

Represent, represent
Represent, represent
Represent, represent
Represent, represent

Yo, they call me Nas, I'm not your legal type of fella
Moët drinking, marijuana smoking street dweller
Who's always on the corner, rolling up bless
When I dress, it's never nothing less than Guess
Cold be walking with a bop and my hat turned back
Love committing sins and my friends sell crack
This nigga raps with a razor, keep it under my tongue
The school drop-out, never liked the shit from day one
‘Cause life ain't shit but stress, fake niggas, and crab stunts
So I guzzle my Hennessy while pulling on mad blunts
The brutalizer, buddha-sizer, accelerator
The type of nigga who be pissing in your elevator
Somehow the rap game reminds me of the crack game
Used to sport Bally's and Cazals with black frames
Now I'm into fat chains, sex and TECs
Fly new chicks and new kicks, Heines and Beck's

Represent, represent
Represent, represent
Represent, represent

No doubt, see my stacks are fat, this is what it's about
Before the BDP conflict with MC Shan
Around the time when Shante dissed the Real Roxanne
I used to wake up every morning, see my crew on the block
Every day's a different plan that had us running from cops
If it wasn't hanging out in front of cocaine spots
We was at the candy factory, breaking the locks
Nowadays, I need the green in a flash just like the next man
Fuck a yard, god, let me see a hundred grand
Could use a gun, son, but fuck being the wanted man
But if I hit rock bottom, then I'ma be the Son of Sam
Then call the crew to get live too, with Swoop
Barkim, my brother Jungle, Big Bo cooks up the blow
Mike'll chop it; Mayo, you count the profit
My shit is on the streets, this way the Jakes'll never stop it
It's your brain on drugs, to all fly bitches and thugs
'Nuff respect to the projects, I'm ghost, one love

Represent y'all, represent
Represent y'all, represent
Represent y'all, represent
Represent y'all, represent

One time for your mothafuckin' mind
This goes out to everybody in New York
That's living the real fucking life in every projects, all over
To my man Big Will, he's still here
The 40 side of Vernon, my man Big L.E.S
Big Cee-Lo from the Dime, Shawn Penn, the 40 busters
My crew the shorty busters, the 41st side of Vernon posse
The Goodfellas, my man Cormega, Lakey the Kid
Can't forget Drawz, the Hillbillies
My man Slate, Wallethead, Black Jay, Big Oogie
Crazy barrio spot, (Big Dove), we rock shit a lot, PHD
And my man Preemo from Gang Starr
'94 real shit y'all (word up Harry O)
Fuck y'all crab-ass niggas though!

Bitch-ass niggas! Bitch-ass niggas!
You bitch-ass motherfuckers!
Come to Queensbridge, motherfucker!
Yeah, yeah, let's bring it back
That's just a warm up
‘Cause I can– on anybody, anybody

[Song 11: Nas Is Like]
(
"Nas is–" "Nas is–" "Nas is–" "Nas is–" "Nas is–" "Nas is–" "Nas is–"
"Nas is like" "Nas is like" "Nas is like"
)
Umm, Premo, Nas
Yeah, yeah, yo
(
"Nas is–" "Nas is–" "Nas is–" "Nas is–" "Nas is–" "Nas is–" "Nas is–"
"Nas is like"
)

Freedom or jail, clips inserted
A baby's bein' born, same time a man is murdered: the beginnin' and end
As far as rap go, it's only natural I explain
My plateau, and also what defines my name
First it was Nasty, but times have changed
Ask me now, I'm the artist, but hardcore, my sign's for pain
I spent time in the game, kept my mind on fame
Saw fiends shoot up and do lines of cocaine
Saw my close friends shot, flatline, am I sane?
That depends, carry MAC-10's to practice my aim
On rooftops, tape CD covers to trees
Line the barrel up with your weak picture, then squeeze
Street scriptures for lost souls in the crossroads
To the corner thugs, hustlin' for cars that cost dough
To the big dogs livin' large, takin' it light
Pushin' big toys, gettin' nice, enjoyin' your life
It's what you make it, suicide, few try to take it
Belt tied around they neck in jail cells naked
Heaven and Hell, rap legend, presence is felt
And of course, N-A-S are the letters that spell... ("Nas–" "Nas– "Nas–")

Nas is like... life or death; I'm a rebel
My poetry's deep, I never fell
Nas is like... half-man, half-amazin'
 (Uh)
No doubt!
Nas is like... life or death; I'm a rebel
 (Uh, uh)
My poetry's deep, I never fell
Nas is like... half-man, half-amazin'
 (Uh)
No doubt!
 (Uh)

("Nas is like...") Earth, Wind & Fire, rims and tires
Bulletproof glass, inside is the realest driver
Planets in orbit, line 'em up with the stars
Tarot cards, you can see the pharaoh Nas
("Nas is like...") Iron Mike, Messiah type
Before the Christ, After the Death, the last one left
Let my cash invest in stock
Came a long way from blastin' TECs on blocks
Went from Seiko to Rolex, ownin' acres
From the projects with no chips, to large cake dough
Dimes givin' fellatio, siete
 zeros
Bet my nine spit for the pesos
But what's it all worth? Can't take it with you under this Earth
Rich men died and tried, but none of it worked
They just rob your grave, I'd rather be alive and paid
Before my number's called, history's made
Some'll fall, but I rise — thug or die
Makin' choices that determine my future under the sky
To rob, steal, or kill, I'm wonderin' why
It's a dirty game, is any man worthy of fame?
Much success to you, even if you wish me the opposite
Sooner or later, we'll all see who the prophet is

"Nas is like..." "Life or death" "I'm a rebel"
"My poetry's deep, I never fell"
"Nas is like... half-man, half-amazin'"
 (C'mon)
"No doubt!"
"Nas is like..." "Life or death" "I'm a rebel"
"My poetry's deep, I never fell"
"Nas is like... half-man, half-amazin'"
"No doubt!"
 (Uh)

("Nas is like...") Sex to a nympho
But nothin' sweet; I'm like beef, bustin' heat through your windows
I'm like a street sweeper, green leaf breather
Like Greeks in Egypt, learnin' somethin' deep from they teachers
I'm like crime, like your .9, your man you would die for
Always got you, I'm like 'Pac, dude you would cry for
I'm like a whole lot of loot, I'm like crisp money
Corporate accounts from a rich company
I'm like ecstasy for ladies; I'm like all races combined in one man
Like the '99 Summer Jam
Bulletproof Hummer, man
I'm like bein' locked down around new faces, and none of 'em fam
I'm the feelin' of a millionaire spendin' a hundred grand
I'm a poor man's dream, a thug poet
Live it and I write down, and I watch it blow up
Y'all know what I'm like, y'all play it in your system every night, now

"Nas is like..." "Life or death" "I'm a rebel"
"My poetry's deep, I never fell"
"Nas is like... half-man, half-amazin'"
"No doubt!"
"Nas is like..." "Life or death" "I'm a rebel"
"My poetry's deep, I never fell"
"Nas is like... half-man, half-amazin'"
"No doubt!"
 (Uh)
("Nas is like...")

[Song 12: Memory Lane (Sittin’ In Da Park)]
(Check that shit)
Aight, fuck that shit, word, word
Fuck that other shit, you know what I'm sayin'?
We gon' do a lil' somethin' like this, you know what I'm sayin'?
(Stay up on that shit)
Keep it on and on and on and on and
Know what I'm sayin'? Big Nas
Grand Wizard, God, what is it? (It's like)
Haha, you know what I'm sayin'?
Yo, go ahead, rip that shit, dunn

I rap for listeners, blunt heads, fly ladies and prisoners
Hennessy-holders and old-school niggas, then I be dissin' a
Unofficial that smoke Woolie Thai
I dropped out of Cooley High, gassed up by a cokehead cutie pie
Jungle survivor, fuck who's the live-r
My man put the battery in my back, a difference from Energizer
Sentence begins indented with formality
My duration's infinite, money-wise or physiology
Poetry, that's a part of me, retardedly bop
I drop the ancient manifested hip-hop straight off the block
I reminisce on park jams, my man was shot for his sheep coat
Choco blunts'll make me see him drop in my weed smoke
It's real, grew up a trife life, the times of white lines, the high pipes
Murderous night times and knife fights and blight crimes
Chill on the block with Cognac, cold strapped
With my peeps that's into drug money market into rap
No sign of the beast in the blue Chrysler, I guess that means peace
For niggas, no sheisty vice to just snipe ya
Start off the dice-rollin' match, from craps to cee-lo
With side bets, so roll a deuce, nothin' below
(Peace, God) Peace, God, now the shit is explained
I'm takin' niggas on a trip straight through memory lane
It's like that, y'all

Now, let me take a trip down memory lane
Comin' out of Queensbridge
Now, let me take a trip down memory lane
Comin' out of Queensbridge
Now, let me take a trip down memory lane
Comin' out of Queensbridge
Now, let me take a trip down memory lane
Comin' out of Queensbridge

One for the money, two for pussy and foreign cars
Three for Alizé, niggas deceased or behind bars
I rap divine, God, check the prognosis — is it real or showbiz?
My window faces shootouts, drug overdoses
Live amongst no roses, only the drama
For real, a nickel-plate is my fate, my medicine is the ganja
Here's my basis; my razor embraces many faces
Your telephone blown, black, stitches or fat shoelaces
Peoples are petro, dramatic, automatic .44 I let blow
And back down po-po when I'm vexed, so
My pen taps the paper, then my brain's blank
I see dark streets, hustlin' brothers who keep the same rank
Pumpin' for somethin' — some'll prosper, some fail
Judges hangin' niggas, uncorrect bails for direct sales
My intellect prevails from a hangin' cross with nails
I reinforce the frail with lyrics that's real
Word to Christ, a disciple of streets, trifle on beats
I decipher prophecies through a mic and say, "Peace"
I hung around the older crews while they sling smack to dingbats
They spoke of Fat Cat; that nigga's name made bell rings, black
Some fiends scream about Supreme Team, a Jamaica Queens thing
Uptown was Alpo, son, heard he was kingpin
Yo, fuck, rap is real, watch the herbs stand still
Never talkin' to snakes 'cause the words of man kill
True in the game, as long as blood is blue in my vein
I pour my Heineken brew to my deceased crew on memory lane

Now, let me take a trip down memory lane
Comin' out of Queensbridge
Now, let me take a trip down memory lane
Comin' out of Queensbridge
Now, let me take a trip down memory lane
Comin' out of Queensbridge
Now, let me take a trip down memory lane
Comin' out of Queensbridge

Comin' outta-a-a-outta-a-a-outta Queensbridge
The most dangerous MC is
Comin' outta-a-a-outta-a-a-outta Queensbridge
The most dangerous MC is
Comin' outta-a-a-a-a-outta Queensbridge
The most dangerous MC is
Comin' outta-a-a-a-a-a-outta Queensbridge
The most dangerous MC is
Me number one, and you know where me from

[Song 13: Halftime]
(Right... Right...)
Check me out, y'all
Nasty Nas in your area
About to cause mass hysteria

Before a blunt, I take out my fronts
Then I start to front, matter of fact, I be on a manhunt
You couldn't catch me in the streets without a ton of reefer
That's like Malcolm X catchin' the Jungle Fever
King poetic, too much flavor, I'm major
Atlanta ain't Brave-r, I pull a number like a pager
'Cause I'ma ace when I face the bass
40-side is the place that is givin' me grace
Now wait, another dose and you might be dead
And I'm a Nike-head, I wear chains that excite the Feds
And ain't a damn thing gonna change
I'm a performer, strange, show the mic warmer was born to gain
Nas, why did you do it?
You know you got the mad-phat fluid when you rhyme, it's halftime

(Right...) It's halftime
(Right...) A-yo, it's halftime
(Right...) It's halftime
(Right...) Yeah, it's about halftime
This is how it feel, check it out, how it feel

It's like that, you know it's like that
I got it hemmed, now you never get the mic back
When I attack, there ain't a army that could strike back
So I react, never calmly on a hype track
I set it off with my own rhyme
'Cause I'm as ill as a convict who kills for phone time
I max like cassettes, I flex like sex
In your stereo sets, Nas'll catch wreck
I used to hustle, now all I do is relax and strive
When I was young, I was a fan of The Jackson 5
I drop jewels, wear jewels, hope to never run it
With more kicks than a baby in a mother's stomach
Nasty Nas has to rise 'cause I'm wise
This is exercise 'til the microphone dies
Back in '83, I was an MC sparkin'
But I was too scared to grab the mics in the parks and
Kick my little raps 'cause I thought niggas wouldn't understand
And now in every jam, I'm the fuckin' man
I rap in front of more niggas than in the slave ships
I used to watch "CHiPs", now I load Glock clips
I got to have it, I miss Mr. Magic
Versatile, my style switches like a faggot
But not bisexual, I'm an intellectual of rap
I'm a professional, and that's no question, yo
These are the lyrics of the man, you can't near it, understand?
'Cause in the streets, I'm well-known like the number man
Am I in place with the bass and format?
Explore rap, and tell me Nas ain't all that
And next time I rhyme, I be foul
Whenever I freestyle, I see trial niggas say I'm wild
I hate a rhyme-biter's rhyme
Stay tuned, Nas soon, the real rap comes at halftime

(Right...) It's halftime
(Right...) Exhale, check it, it's halftime
(Right...) It's halftime
(Right...) It's real in the field
Word life, check it

I got it goin' on, even flip a morning song
Every afternoon, I kick half the tune
And in the darkness, I'm heartless like when the NARC's hit
Word to Marcus Garvey, I hardly sparked it
'Cause when I blast the herb, that's my word
I be slayin' 'em fast, doin' this, that and the third
But chill, pass to Andre, and let's slay
I bag bitches up at John Jay and hit a matinée
Puttin' hits on 5-0
'Cause when it's my time to go, I wait for God with the .44
And biters can't come near
And yo, go to Hell to the foul cop who shot Garcia
I won't plant seeds, don't need an extra mouth I can't feed
That's extra Phillie change, more cash for damp weed
This goes out to Manhattan, the Island of Staten
Brooklyn and Queens is livin' fat and
The Boogie Down, enough props, enough clout
Ill Will, rest in peace, yo, I'm out

(Right...) It's still halftime
(Right...) To the Queensbridge crew
To the Queensbridge crew, you know it's halftime
(Right...) '92, it's halftime
(Right...) Yo, police, police man, yo, let's get ghost
Halftime...

[Song 14: Affirmative Action]
This is what.. this what they want, huh?
This is what it's all about, word
Time to take affirmative action, son
They just don't understand, you know what I mean?
Niggas comin' sideways, thinkin' stuff is sweet, man
You know what I mean?
Niggas don't understand the four devils:
Lust, envy, hate, jealousy
Wicked niggas, man

Yo, sit back, relax, catch your contact, sip your Cognac
And let's all wash this money through this laundromat
Sneak attack, the new cats in rap worth top dollar
In fact, touch mines and I'll react like a Rottweiler!
Who could relate? We play for high stakes at gunpoint
Catch 'em and break, undress 'em, tie 'em with tape, no escape
The Corleone, fettuccine Capone
Roam in your own zone, or get kidnapped and clapped in your dome
We got it sewn, The Firm art of war is unknown
Lower your tone, face it, homicide cases get thrown
Aristocrats politickin' daily wit' diplomats
See, me, I'm an official mack, Lex Coupe triple black

Criminal thoughts in the blue Porsche, my destiny's to be the new boss
That nigga Paulie gotta die, he too soft
That nigga's dead on a ki of heroin
They found his head on the couch wit' his dick in his mouth
I put the hit out!
Yo! The smoothest killer since Bugsy, bitches love me
In Queens where my drugs be, I wear Guess jeans and rugbies
Yo, my people from Medina, they will see ya when you re-up
Bring your heater, all your cream go between us
Real shit! My Desert Eagle got a ill grip
I chill wit' niggas that hit Dominican spots and steal bricks
My red beam made a dread scream and sprayed a Fed team
Corleone be turnin' niggas to fiends
Yukons and ninja black Lexus
'Mega — the pretty boy with Mafia connections
It's The Firm, nigga, set it!

Yo, my mind is seein' through your design like 
Blind Fury
I shine jewelry, sippin' on crushed grapes, we lust papes
And push cakes inside the casket at Just' wake
It's sickenin', he just finished biddin' upstate
And now the projects is talkin' that "Somebody gotta die" shit
It's logic, as long as it's nobody that's in my clique
My man Smoke know how to expand coke in Mr. Coffee
Feds cost me two mill' to get the system off me
Life's a bitch, but God forbid the bitch divorce me
I'll be flooded with ice so hellfire can't scorch me
Cuban cigars, meetin' Foxy at Demars, movin' cars
Your top papi Señor Escobar

In the black Camaro
Firm deep, all my niggas hail the blackest sparrow
Wallabees be the apparel through the darkest tunnel
I got visions of multi millions in the biggest bundle
In a Lex pushed by my nigga Jungle
E-Moneybags got Moët Chandon, bundle of 62
They ain't got a clue what we about to do
My whole team, we shittin' hard like Czar
Sosa, Foxy Brown, Cormega and Escobar
I keep a phat marquise piece, laced in all the illest snake skin
Armani sweaters, Carolina Herrera
Be The Firm, baby! From BK to the 'Bridge
My nigga Wiz, Operation Firm Biz, so what the deal is?
I keep a phat jewel, sippin' Cristy
Sittin' on top of fifty grand in the Nautica Van, uh!
We stay incogni' like all them thug niggas in Marcy
The Gods — they praise Allah with visions of Gandhi
Bet it on, my whole crew is Don Juan
On Cayman Island with a case of Cristal
And Baba Shallah spoke, nigga with them Cubans that snort coke
Raw though, an ounce mixed with leak, that's pure though
Flippin' the bigger picture, the bigger nigga with the cheddar
Was mad dripper, he had a fuckin' villa in Manilla
We gotta flee to Panama
But wait — it's half-and-half, ki's is one and two-fifth, so how we flip?
Thirty-two grams raw, chop it in half, get sixteen, double it, times three
We got forty-eight, which mean a whole lot of cream
Divide the profit by four, subtract it by eight, we back to sixteen
Now add the other two that Mega bringin' through
So let's see, if we flip this other ki, then that's more for me
Mad coke and mad leak plus a five hundred, cut in half is two-fifty
Now triple that — times three, we got three quarters of another ki

The Firm, baby, Vol. 1, uh!

[Song 15: One Mic]
One time
Yeah, yeah

Yo, all I need is one mic, one beat, one stage
One nigga front, my face on the front page
Only if I had one gun, one girl and one crib
One God to show me how to do things his son did
Pure, like a cup of virgin blood
Mixed with 151, one sip'll make a nigga flip
Writin' names on my hollow tips, plottin' shit
Mad violence, who I'm gon' body? This hood politics
Acknowledge it, leave bodies chopped up in garbages
Seeds watch us, grow up and try to follow us
Police watch us, roll up and try knockin' us
One knee, I ducked, could it be my time is up?
But my luck, I got up, the cop shot again
Bus stop glass burst, a fiend drops his Heineken
Ricochetin' between the spots that I'm hidin' in
Blackin' out as I shoot back, fuck gettin' hit
This is my hood, I'ma rep to the death of it
'Til everybody come home, little niggas is grown
Hoodrats, don't abortion your womb
We need more warriors soon, sent from the stars, sun and the moon
In this life of police chases, street sweepers and coppers
Stick-up kids with no conscience leavin' victims with doctors
If you really think you ready to die with nines out
This is what Nas is 'bout, nigga, the time is now

Yo, all I need is one mic
All I need is one mic (That's all I need)
All I need is one mic (All I need, niggas)
All I need is one mic (Yeah)

All I need is one blunt, one page and one pen
One prayer, tell God forgive me for one sin
Matter fact, maybe more than one
Look back at all the hatred against me, fuck all of them
Jesus died at age thirty-three, there's thirty-three shots
From twin Glocks, there's sixteen apiece, that's thirty-two
Which means one of my guns was holdin' seventeen
Twenty-seven hit your crew, six went into you
Everybody gotta die sometime, hope your funeral
Never gets shot up, bullets tear through the innocent
Nothin' is fair, niggas roll up shootin' from wheelchairs
My heart is racin', tastin' revenge in the air
I let this shit slide for too many years, too many times
Now I'm strapped with a couple of MACs, two mini nines
If y'all niggas really with me, get busy, load up the semis
Do more than just hold it, explode the clip until you empty
There's nothin' in our way, they bust, we bust, they rush, we rush
Lead flyin', feel it? I feel it in my gut
That we take these bitches to war, lie 'em down
'Cause we stronger now, my nigga, the time is now

All I need is one mic (That's all I need, niggas, that's all I need)
All I need is one mic (There's nothin' else in the world)
All I need is one mic (That's all a nigga need to do his thing, you know?)
All I need is one mic (This is all I need)

All I need is one life, one try, one breath, I'm one man
What I stand for speaks for itself, they don't understand
Don't wanna see me on top, too egotistical
Talkin' all that slick shit the same way these bitches do
Wonder what my secrets is, niggas'll move on you
Only if they know what your weakness is, I have none
Too late to grab guns, I'm blastin' 'cause I'm a cool nigga
Thought I wouldn't have that ass done? Fooled you niggas
What you call an infinite brawl, eternal souls clashin'
War gets deep, some beef is everlastin'
Complete with thick scars
Brothers knifin' each other up in prison yards
Drama, where does it start?
You know the block was ill as a youngster
Every night it was like a cop'll get killed, body found in a dumpster
For real a hustler, purchased my Range, niggas throwin' dirt on my name
Jealous 'cause fiends got they work and complained
Bitches left me 'cause they thought I was finished
Shoulda knew she wasn't true, she came to me when her man caught a sentence
Diamonds are blindin', I never make the same mistakes
Movin' with a change of pace, lighter load, see now the king is straight
Swellin' my melon 'cause none of these niggas real
Heard they were tellin' police, how can a kingpin squeal?
This is crazy, I'm on the right track, I'm finally found
You need some soul-searchin', the time is now

All I need is one mic (Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah)
All I need is one mic (All I ever needed in this world, fuck cash)
All I need is one mic (Fuck the cars, the jewelry)
All I need is one mic (To spread my voice to the whole world, baby)

[Song 16: I Can]
I know I can
Be what I wanna be
If I work hard at it
I'll be where I wanna be
I know I can (I know I can)
Be what I wanna be (Be what I wanna be)
If I work hard at it (If I work hard at it)
I'll be where I wanna be (I'll be where I wanna be)

Be – b-boys and girls, listen up
You can be anything in the world, in God we trust
An architect, doctor, maybe an actress
But nothing comes easy, it takes much practice
Like, I met a woman who's becoming a star
She was very beautiful, leaving people in awe
Singing songs, Lena Horne, but the younger version
Hung with the wrong person, got her strung on that heroin
Cocaine, sniffing up drugs, all in her nose
Could've died, so young, now looks ugly and old
No fun, 'cause now when she reaches for hugs, people hold they breath
'Cause she smells of corrosion and death
Watch the company you keep and the crowd you bring
'Cause they came to do drugs and you came to sing
So if you gonna be the best, I'ma tell you how
Put your hands in the air, and take the vow

I know I can (I know I can)
Be what I wanna be (Be what I wanna be)
If I work hard at it (If I work hard at it)
I'll be where I wanna be (I'll be where I wanna be)
I know I can (I know I can)
Be what I wanna be (Be what I wanna be)
If I work hard at it (If I work hard at it)
I'll be where I wanna be (I'll be where I wanna be)
I know I can (I know I can)
Be what I wanna be (Be what I wanna be)
If I work hard at it (If I work hard at it)
I'll be where I wanna be (I'll be where I wanna be)

Be – b-boys and girls, listen again
This is for grown-looking girls who's only 10
The ones who watch videos and do what they see
As cute as can be, up in the club with fake ID
Careful, 'fore you meet a man with HIV
You can host the TV, like Oprah Winfrey
Whatever you decide, be careful – some men be
Rapists – so act your age, don't pretend to be
Older than you are, give yourself time to grow
You thinking he can give you wealth, but so?
Young boys, you can use a lot of help, you know?
You thinking life's all about smoking weed and ice
You don't wanna be my age and can't read and write
Begging different women for a place to sleep at night
Smart boys turn to men, and do whatever they wish
If you believe you can achieve, then say it like this

I know I can (I know I can)
Be what I wanna be (Be what I wanna be)
If I work hard at it (If I work hard at it)
I'll be where I wanna be (I'll be where I wanna be)
I know I can (I know I can)
Be what I wanna be (Be what I wanna be)
If I work hard at it (If I work hard at it)
I'll be where I wanna be (I'll be where I wanna be)

Be – be–fore we came to this country
We were kings and queens, never porch monkeys
There was empires in Africa called Kush
Timbuktu, where every race came to get books
To learn from Black teachers, who taught Greeks and Romans
Asians, Arabs, and gave them gold, when
Gold was converted to money, it all changed
Money then became empowerment for Europeans
The Persian military invaded
They heard about the gold, the teachings, and everything sacred
Africa was almost robbed naked
Slavery was money, so they began making slave ships
Egypt was the place that Alexander The Great went
He was so shocked at the mountains with Black faces
Shot up they nose, to impose, what basically
Still goes on today, you see?
If the truth is told, the youth can grow
They learn to survive, until they gain control
Nobody says you have to be gangstas, hoes
Read more, learn more, change the globe
Ghetto children, do your thing
Hold your head up, little man, you're a king!
Young princess, when you get your wedding ring
Your man will sing, 
"She's my Queeeeeen!"

I know I can (I know I can)
Be what I wanna be (Be what I wanna be)
If I work hard at it (If I work hard at it)
I'll be where I wanna be (I'll be where I wanna be)
I know I can (I know I can)
Be what I wanna be (Be what I wanna be)
If I work hard at it (If I work hard at it)
I'll be where I wanna be (I'll be where I wanna be)

Save the music, y'all
Save the music, y'all
Save the music, y'all
Save the music, y'all
Save the music

[Song 17: Cherry Wine]
Where is he, the man who was just like me?
I heard he was hidin' somewhere I can't see
Where is he, the man who was just like me?
Heard he was hidin' somewhere I can't see
And I'm alone, and I realize that when I get home
I wanna go through my red and my cherry
Yes, I'm alone, and I realize when I get home
I wanna go through my red and my cherry

I want someone who like the champagne I like, my a-alike
Someone to talk me off the bridge any day or night
She teach me how to live, she ain’t afraid of life
Not easily impressed with the rich and famous life
'Cause she done been there and heard all the rumors before
She loves art, she ride out with me on my music tour
She like the herb's natural medicine, she cookin' good
She tell me everything is cool when it ain't lookin' good
For real, the world so ill, yo, I want a girl so real
Who not after material wealth but get dough still
Or maybe an educator, a lady with etiquette
Who can be from out the hood or even work for the president
As long as there’s no selfishness
Yes, as long as her love for the people is deep-rooted and evident
You can be easily recruited, you’re heaven-sent
Your smile put me at ease
You’re the woman I need, but where is she?

Where is he, the man who was just like me?
I heard he was hidin' somewhere I can't see
Where is he, the man who was just like me?
Heard he was hidin' somewhere I can't see
And I'm alone, and I realize that when I get home
I wanna go through my red and my cherry
Yes, I'm alone, and I realize when I get home
I wanna go through my red and my cherry

I hate when people write me hostile texts
On account of my lifestyle's perception
Invade my personal life? Out of the question
What are they expectin'?
I be tryin' to reply and they never suppose I get my quiet time in?
They think forever I’m rollin' in dough, swimmin' in a pool of cash
God, wouldn’t they know or am I a fool to ask?
I’m well known, got people comin' at me mad
I had to tell homes, I don’t keep a cell phone, my bad
I drag off the L and try to silence it
The noise in my head, the curse of the talented
Strong communicator, vagabond
I'd gallivant around the Equator, if that would get me off the radar
It's so intense, I'm on my Lilo & Stitch
Pour my Pinot Grigio and Cris' with some lime, what is this?
An immaculate version of "Me & My Bitch" by Biggie
With all respect, 'cause you the only one that gets me

Where is he, the man who was just like me?
I heard he was hidin' somewhere I can't see
Where is he, the man who was just like me?
Heard he was hidin' somewhere I can't see
And I'm alone, and I realize that when I get home
I wanna go through my red and my cherry
Yes, I'm alone, and I realize when I get home
I wanna go through my red and my cherry

Yeah, yeah, let’s pour some cherry wine
Everything’s good, everything’s fine
Yeah, yeah, we bring it every time
Yeah, pour a little cherry wine
Yeah, hey yo, Salaam
Yeah, I think they know the time
Everything’s good, everything’s fine
Yeah, pour a little cherry wine, yeah
Life is good, life is good, yeah
Life is good, no matter what, life is good
Life is good, life is good, yeah
No matter what, life is good

Where is he, the man who was just like me?
I heard he was hidin' somewhere I can't see
Where is he, the man who was just like me?
Heard he was hidin' somewhere I can't see
And I'm alone, and I realize that when I get home
I wanna go through my red and my cherry
Yes, I'm alone, and I realize when I get home
I wanna go through my red and my cherry

[Song 18: Daughters]
Check it out
I call it, yeah, yeah

For my brothers with daughters, I call this
For my brothers with daughters, I call this
For my brothers with daughters, I call this
For my brothers with daughters

I saw my daughter send a letter to some boy her age
Who locked up, first I regretted it, then caught my rage
Like, how could I not protect her from this awful phase?
Never tried to hide who I was, she was taught and raised
Like a princess, but while I'm on stage I can't leave her defenseless
Plus she's seen me switchin' women, Pops was on some pimp shit
She heard stories of her daddy thuggin'
So if her husband is a gangster, can't be mad, I'll love him
Never, for her I want better, homie in jail – dead that
Wait 'til he come home, you can see where his head's at
Niggas got game, they be tryna live
He seen your Mama crib, plus I'm sure he know who your father is
Although you real, plus a honest kid
Don't think I'm slow, I know you probably had that chronic lit
You seventeen, I got a problem with it
She looked at me like I'm not the cleanest father figure
But she rockin' with it

For my brothers with daughters, I call this
For my brothers with daughters, I call this
Not sayin' that our sons are less important
For my brothers with daughters, I call this
For my brothers with daughters, I call this
Not sayin' that our sons are less important

This morning I got a call, nearly split my wig
This social network said: "Nas, go and get your kid!"
She's on Twitter, I know she ain't gon' post no pic
Of herself underdressed – no inappropriate shit, right?
Her mother cried when she answered
Said she don't know what got inside this child's mind, she planted
A box of condoms on her dresser, then she Instagram'd it
At this point I realized I ain't the strictest parent
I'm too loose, I'm too cool with her
Should've drove more time to school with her
I thought I dropped enough jewels on her
Took her from private school, so she can get a balance
To public school, they too nurture teen talents
They grow fast, one day she's your little princess
Next day she's talkin' boy business – what is this?
They say the coolest playas and foulest heart breakers in the world
God gets us back, he makes us have precious little girls, uh

For my brothers with daughters, I call this
For my brothers with daughters, I call this
Not sayin' that our sons are less important
For my brothers with daughters, I call this
For my brothers with daughters, I call this
Not sayin' that our sons are less important

And I ain't tryin' to mess your thing up
But I just wanna see you dream up
I finally understand
It ain't easy to raise a girl as a single man
Nah, the way mothers feel for they sons
How fathers feel for they daughters
When he date, he straight, chip off his own papa
When she date, we wait behind the door with a sawed-off
‘Cause we think no one is good enough for our daughters
Love

[Song 19: Made Nas Proud (Let Nas Down Remix)]
Freedom or jail, clips inserted
A baby's bein' born same time a man is murdered
The beginning and end, as far as rap goes
It's only natural, I explain my plateau
And also what defines my name

Yeah, long live the idols, may they never be your rivals
Pac was like Jesus, Nas wrote the Bible
Now what you're 'bout to hear's a tale of glory and sin
No I.D. my mentor, now let the story begin

I ain't mad at you, young king, this unsung song is hauntin'
Along comes a one son called a offspring
The Earth spins, my Old Earth grin, sung a church hymn
She birthed in September, took my first wind, again, the Earth spins
I jumped in my first Benz, fled out, lead out
Screams got in the game and took bread out
The nerve of these niggas, weak flow, yo, Cole, let's murder this sequel
Freedom or jail from Fayetteville to QB though
'Cause back when I was young there was massive niggas
But I passed them niggas, just bein' nasty, nigga
Military hat, fatigue pants saggin', Henny'd up
Execs askin' will he live to see his own release date happen
Straight off the corner with the armor, Arm and Hammer
But I had appeal, I was a charmer
Yet still bein' my mama's son was my biggest honor
This shit was just kinda just a hobby in my project lobby
We was tryna be the Queensbridge Cosby's
But the street life robbed me of that, so I had to put it in raps
And who could I ask for help? Older niggas was gettin' mad
But that's the gift and the curse, that's the good and the bad
At least you got Jay, but he already one of the greats
And it's hard for the great to tell somebody how to be great
Nigga I tried and niggas threw that shit right back in my face
They took my cosign, but they ain't let me EP their tapes
And when they joint tanked, that's when they point blame
So point blank, young Cole, you won't be the same
The first album freedoms and them fourth album pressures
A big difference between 'em but I get why you said it
Radio records are needed, I just wanted it to bring the warnin'
Global warmin' to that cold world you was breathin'
That's some advice I never got
If I don't sell another record, I'll just steady rock
While you was writin' down my rhymes I was just tryna show you
That if you say what's on ya mind, you can stand the test of time
Now I'm playin' 
Born Sinner
 loud, saw you live, rock the crowd
Like wow, you made your nigga Nas proud

So you ain't let Nas down
It's just part of the game, becoming a rap king, my nigga
You ain't let Nas down
How that sound? Here the crown, pass it to you like nothin', nigga
You ain't let Nas down

Long live the idols, may they never be your rivals
Slick Rick was like Jesus, G Rap wrote the Bible
Now what you're 'bout to hear's a tale of glory and sin
Large Professor's my mentor, that's how the story end, ah

[Song 20: Hate Me Now]
Escobar Season has returned (Has returned)
It's been a long time, been a long time comin'
It's life or death for me now
But, you know, there's no turnin' back now
This is what makes me, this is what I am... (Feel me?)
(Let's go)

You can hate me now (QB)
But I won't stop now (Real niggas)
'Cause I can't stop now (
Bravehearts
)
You can hate me now (C'mon!)
But I won't stop now (Uh)
(Well, you hate me, I'm gon' hate you too. It's as simple as that)
'Cause I can't stop now (Die, motherfucker! Die, motherfucker! Die!)
You can hate me now (You don't give a fuck, I don't give a fuck)
You can hate me now (Go down any way you want it to go down)

Do it now
(Weak, jealous motherfuckers!)
Do it now
Do it now!

Don't hate me, hate the money I see (
Yeah
), clothes that I buy (
Uh-huh
)
Ice that I wear, flows that I try (
C'mon
)
Close your eyes (
That's right
), picture me rollin'
Sixes, money foldin'
Bitches, honeys that's swollen; the riches, Nas get in ya
Most critically acclaimed, Pulitzer Prize winner
Best storyteller, thug narrator, my style's greater (
You the best, that's right
)
Model dater; big threat to a lot of you haters (Haha)
Commentators ringside try watchin' my paper (Watch this)
Almost a decade; quite impressive
Most of the best is in the essence, for this rap shit that I stand for
Expandin' more to the big screen; Bill Gate dreams
But it seems you'd rather see me in jail with state greens (Hah! Picture that)
Want me off the scene fast, but good things last
Like your favorite MC still makin' some mean cash
First rapper to bring a platinum plaque back to the projects
But you still wanna hate? Be my guest. I suggest–

Money is power, motherfucker
I got millions of thugs on salary!
Do it now!

You can hate me now (I won't stop)
But I won't stop now (I can't stop)
'Cause I can't stop now (Now) (You can hate me)
You can hate me now (Do it now) (I hate you too)
But I won't stop now (C'mon) (You can hate me now)
'Cause I can't stop now (C'mon)
You can hate me now (Do it now) (You can hate me now)
You can hate me now

Do it now! I told you, do it now!
Let's go

You wanna hate me, then hate me, what can I do
But keep gettin' money? Funny, I was just like you
I had to hustle hard, never give up, until I made it
Now, y'all sayin', "That's a clever nigga, nothin' to play with"
Hate on me; I blew, but I'm the same OG
People warned me, "When you on top, there's envy"
Took my niggas out the hood, but you doubt on us
Sayin' we left the hood, but can't get it out of us
My bad, should I step out my shoes, give 'em to you?
Here's my cars and my house, you can live in that too
Criticize when I flow for the street, hate my dress code
Gucci this, Fendi that – what you expect, hoe?
Nickname Esco, took this game to its threshold
Best flow, I bet the whole U.S. know
Try to make it like you the realest, but who the illest?
Think we all know the answer to that; 'cause niggas feel this, right?

You think I'ma come this far and let you niggas stop me now?
I hate you too! (Do it now!)

You can hate me now (I won't stop)
But I won't stop now (Now) (I can't stop)
'Cause I can't stop now (Do it now) (You can hate me)
You can hate me now (C'mon) (I hate you too)
But I won't stop now (Uh) (You can hate me now)
'Cause I can't stop now (Uh, uh)
You can hate me now (Do it now) (You can hate me now)
You can hate me now (Do it now)

I like this
I like the way this feels (Let's go)

It's a thin line between paper and hate
Friends and snakes; nine milli's and thirty-eights
Hell or the Pearly Gates? I was destined to come
Predicted; blame God, He blew breath in my lungs
Second to none; wicked, turn wives to widows (
Yeah
)
Shoot through satin pillows, the desolate one (Right)
Took a little time to claim my spot
Chairman of the board, until this game stop and I side with the Lord
Ride for the cause; my driver, niggas shot up my doors (That's right)
Plottin', I'm sure, to catch me with they Glocks to my jaws
Tried stickin' me up, but I flipped on these ducks (
You tried?
)
Instead of me, ambulances were pickin' 'em up (That's what you get)
Niggas fear what they don't understand
Hate what they can't conquer, guess it's just the Theory of Man
Became a monster; atop of the world, never fallin'
I'm as real as they come, from day one, forever ballin' – c'mon!

(It won't stop) You will never seen a nigga like me
(It won't stop) Ever in your life
(You can hate me) (Never!)
And that's what you can't understand!

You can hate me now (C'mon) (I won't stop)
But I won't stop now (I can't stop)
'Cause I can't stop now (Do it now, do it now) (You can hate me)
You can hate me now (Do it now, do it now, niggas) (I hate you too)
But I won't stop now (C'mon) (You can hate me now)
'Cause I can't stop now (Hate me now)
You can hate me now (You can hate me now) (Hate me now)
You can hate me now (C'mon, niggas!) (You can hate me now)

You can hate me now (C'mon, niggas!) (You can hate me now)
But I won't stop now (Do it now! Get this shit over with!)
(But I won't stop now)
It ain't gon' never stop, niggas! (I can't stop, I can't stop)

[Song 21: EPMD 2]
Respectfully

Bucket on low like Erick and Parrish
Closed casket flow, all you niggas get deaded
They don't give you one single rose while you can smell it
So I pick from my own garden (Garden)
Wanna go out in my garden like Godfather
Grandkids and a Rottweiler got over the block trauma (Yeah, trauma)
So what you sayin', nigga? You gots to chill (
Uh-huh
)
Thinkin' you the truth, really you not for real (EPMD!)
Back to back with it, the hardest shit of the year (Nasir Jones, remix)

EPMD, we back in business
Ain't nobody fuckin' with us, come to your senses (Uh)
P is the second comin' of God, somеthin' to witness
Piece of shit, fly on your hеad like Mike Pence's, we in the trenches
I'm mad, better yet, I'm on a rampage
My people can't even get minimum wage
Fuck a stimulus (Uh), give me some interest (Uh)
Give me a loan (Oh), give me a home
Give me that land you owe me so I can roam
So when you trespass, blaow, one in your dome
Best wishes, ghost 'em like he Tommy
Ain't worried 'bout nothing 'cause Hit Squad behind me

EPMD, we back in business
I visualize what it is, not what it isn't
We at the mafia table next to the kitchen
Eatin' Michelin Stars, countin' a million

Dun! I let it go for the family, meetin's at Cote in Miami
Them wine bottles on maggie, extra large
Sign up for my masterclass, Escobar
Feet up at Mets Stadium at my restaurant
Tied in from AZ to Dave East
You know my thoughts get crazy
My teachers, they couldn't grade me
I know some Haitians in Dade County, got choppers in Haiti
She booked a flight to Colombia, made her body amazin'
Just to post it on Tumblr, this that "fuck up the summer" shit
I don't care what you comin' with, me and Hit-Boy runnin' shit (Runnin' shit)
Big gold, rope chains, but they flooded now (Yeah, flooded now)
Pull up with the Ghost like a haunted house (Haunted house)
She gettin' scary, blood on my hands like Carrie
Might walk through a cemetery to see where hip-hop is buried
I said it was dead, but it faked its death like Machiavelli
You see letters in red splatter, look like sauce and spaghetti
(Yeah, ready?)

EPMD, we're back in business (What?)
Livin' in cramped conditions, will give you ammunition
I stock those shelves, I got those shells like Taco Bell and I'm not gon' fail
I got no L's (Noels) like Christmas, you don't wanna make the claws (Claus) come out (Nah)
Y'all should call yourselves Santa (Why?) 'cause none of y'all are real (Nah)
Not a 'single one' (Like what?), like a dollar bill (Yeah)
Just like your bitch in appellate court, she's on a pill (Appeal)
We got her a 'bond' and she'll
Never 'bail' on me (Bail on me), not even outta jail (Haha, jail)
EPMD, but me, I gots no chill (Ch-chill)
Just a lotta skrill
Lady, my paper's so crazy, I just tossed a mil' out the window of my mobile
On the fuckin' freeway on the way here (Yeah)
Like Rudolph and his homies when they pullin' the sleigh, yeah
That's a lot of bucks flyin' when I'm makin' it rain, dear
Green on me but no weed, shorty, just these, darling
A pocket full of pills, some are Tylenol 3s, prolly two or three Molly
So some are E  (Summary), which reminds me of "Rap Summary," mami
My theme song, me and "P" always used to play that shit on repeat all day
So please call me "Big Daddy" (Daddy)
Plus I got the Kane (Cane) and "Lean On Me" (Yeah)
MCs, I'm eatin' you B-I-T-C-H's like tortilla chips
Me, I'm free of debt, yeah, green is on Chia Pet (Woo)
This is the effects of my old neighborhood misery index
Poverty at its peak, OCD and PTSD, I guess
R.I.P. out to DMX, Stezo E and Nipsey
Ecstasy and Prince Markie Dee, MF DOOM, I hit 50 via text
Told him that I love him 'cause I don't even know when I'ma see him next (Nah)
Tomorrow could be your death (Bring that beat back)
Yeah, and this shit ain't for the faint
'Cause the brain's illa trained killer, danger, deranged
And I drank all the DayQuil (Yeah) I blank on the paper
Then wait 'til the page fill up (What?)
Hate spiller, shameful the strength of a pain pill or tranq'
I just pray for the day when I'm able to say that I'm placed with the greats
And my name's with the Kane's and the Wayne's, and the Jay's and the Dre's
And the Ye's, and the Drake's and the J Dilla's, Jada's, Cool J's
And the Ra's and amazin' as Nas is, and praise to the Gods of this
Shout to the golden age of Hip-Hop and the name of this song is
EPMD, we back in business
I visualize what it is, not what it isn't
We at the mafia table next to the kitchen
Eatin' Michelin Stars, countin' a million

[Song 22: Made You Look]
Bravehearts, Bravehearts
Bravehearts, Bravehearts
Bravehearts, Bravehearts
Bravehearts, Bravehearts
Uh, uh, uh

Now, let's get it all in perspective
For all y'all enjoyment, a song y'all can step with
Y'all appointed me to bring rap justice
But I ain't Five-O, y'all know it's Nas, yo
Grey Goose and a whole lot of hydro
Only describe us as soldiers, survivors
Stay laced in the best, well-dressed
With finesse in a white tee, lookin' for wifey
Thug girl who fly, and talks so nicely
Put her in the coupe, so she can feel the nice breeze
We can drive through the city, no doubt
But don't say my car's topless, say "the titties is out"
Newness, here's the anthem, put your hand up that you shoot with
Count your loot with, push the pool stick in your new crib
Same hand that you hoop with, swing around like you stupid
King of the town? Yeah, I been that
You know I click-clack where you and your mens at
Do the Smurf, do the Wop, Baseball Bat
Rooftop, like we bringin' '88 back

They shootin', aw, made you look
You a slave to a page in my rhyme book
Gettin' big money, playboy, your time's up
Where them gangstas? Where them dimes at?
They shootin', aw, made you look
You a slave to a page in my rhyme book
Gettin' big money, playboy, your time's up
Where them gangstas at? Where them dimes at?

This ain't rappin', this is Street Hop
Now get up off yo' ass like your seat's hot
My live niggas, lit up the reefer
Trunk of the car, we got the streetsweeper
Don't start none, won't be none
No reason for your mans to panic
You don't wanna see no ambulances
Knock a pimp's drink down in his pimp cup
That's the way you get Timberland'd up
Let the music defuse all the tension
Baller convention, free admission
Hustlers, dealers, and killers can move swift
Girls, get close, you can feel where the tool's kept
All my just-comin' homies, parolees
Get money, leave the beef alone slowly
Get out my face, you people so phony
Pull out my waist, the Eagle four-forty

They shootin', aw, made you look
You a slave to a page in my rhyme book
Gettin' big money, playboy, your time's up
Where them gangstas? Where them dimes at?
They shootin', aw, made you look
You a slave to a page in my rhyme book
Gettin' big money, playboy, your time's up
Where them gangstas at? Where them dimes at?

Bravehearts, Bravehearts
Bravehearts, Bravehearts

I see niggas runnin', yo, my mood is real rude
I lay you out, show you what steel do
Mobsters don't box, my pump shot obliges
Every invitation to fight ya punk asses
Like Pun said, "You ain’t even en mi clase"
Maybach Benz, back seat, TV, plasma
Ladies lookin' for athletes or rappers
Whatever you choose, whatever you do
Make sure he a thug and intelligent too
Like a real thoroughbred is
Show me love, let me feel how the head is
Females who's the sexiest is always the nastiest

And I like a little sassiness, a lot of class
Mami, reach in your bag, pass the fifth
I'm a leader at last, this a don you with
My 9's will spit, niggas lose consciousness

[Song 23: The Genesis]
Street's disciple, my raps are trifle
I shoot slugs from my brain just like a rifle
Stampede the stage, I leave the microphone split
Play Mr. Tuffy while I'm on some Pretty Tone shit
Verbal assassin, my architect pleases
When I was 12, I went to…

And you're sitting at home doing this shit
I should be earning a medal for this
Stop fuckin' around and be a man
There ain't nothin' out here for you
Oh yes, there is… This


Yo, Nas, yo, what the fuck is this bullshit on the radio, son?

Chill, chill! That's the shit, God, chill

Ayo, yo, pull down the shade, man
Let's count this money, nigga
Ayo, Nas, put the Jacksons and the Grants over there!
You know what I'm sayin'?
‘Cause we spendin' the Jacksons
You know how we get down, baby

True, true

Nas, yo, Nas, man
Shit is mad real right now in the projects
For a nigga, yo, word to mother
All them crab-ass rappers be comin' up to me
Man, word to mother, man
I think we need to let them niggas know it's real, man

True indeed, knamsayin'?
But when it's real you doin' this
Even without a record contract, knamsayin'?

No question

Been doing this since back then

I'm sayin' regardless how it go down we gon' keep it real
We tryin' to see many mansions and Coupes, kid

No doubt, we gon' keep it real, true, true

Ayo, where's Grand Wizard and Mayo at, man?
Takin' niggas a long time, man

Who got the Phillies? Take this Hennessy, man

Ayo, dunn
C'mon, c'mon, man, stop wavin' that, man!
Stop pointin' that at me, dunn, take the clip out!

Nigga, alright, but take this Hennessy, man!

I'm sayin' take the clip, man, c'mon, take it out!

Light them Phillies up, man!
Niggas stop fuckin' burnin' Phillies, man
Light some Phillies up then!

Pass that henrock, pass that henrock!
Nigga, act like you know!

Yo, we drinkin' this straight up with no chaser
I ain't fuckin' with you, nigga

I'm saying though, man

What is it, what is it, baby?

What is it, son, what is it?

You know what time it is

I'm saying, man, you know what I'm saying?
Niggas don't listen, man
Representin', it's 
Illmatic

[Song 24: One Time 4 Your Mind]
Yeah, it's Illmatic (Yeah)
Uh, it's Illmatic (Yeah)
It's Illmatic (Haha, haha, check it, uh)

One time for your mind, one time (
Yeah, whatever
)
One time for your mind, one time (
Yo, whatever
)
One time for your mind, one time
Ayo, Nas (
What up, pah?
) kick that fuckin' rhyme
(Check it out!)

When I'm chillin', I grab the buddha, get my crew to buy beers
And watch a flick, illin' and rootin' for the villain, huh
Plus, every morning, I go out and love it sort of chilly
Then I send a shorty from my block to the store for Phillies
After bein' blessed by the herb's essence
I'm back to my rest, ten minutes, some odd seconds
That's where I got the honey at, spends the night for sexin'
Keep lubrication, lifestyle protection
Pickin' up my stereo's remote control quickly
Ron G's in the cassette deck — rockin' the shit, G
I try to stay mellow, rock, well, acappella rhymes'll
Make me richer than a slipper made Cinderella, fella
Go get your crew, hops, I'm prepared to bomb troops
Y'all niggas was born, I shot my way out my mom dukes
When I was ten, I was a hip-hoppin' shorty wop
Known for rockin' microphones and twistin' off a 40 top, yeah

One time for your mind, one time (
Yeah, whatever
)
One time for your mind, one time (
It sound clever
)
Ayo, Nas, fuck that, man, that shit was phat
But kick that for them gangstas, man, fuck all that! (
Right, right
)

What up, niggas? How y'all? It's Nasty, the villain
I'm still writin' rhymes, but besides that, I'm chillin'
I'm tryna get this money, God — you know the hard times, kid
Shit, cold, be starvin' make you wanna do crimes, kid
But I'ma lamp 'cause a crime couldn't beat a rhyme
Niggas catchin' three-to-nines, Muslims yellin', "Free the mind!"
And I'm from Queensbridge, been to many places
As a kid, when I would say that outta town, niggas chased us
But now I know the time, got a older mind, plus control a 9
Fine, see, now I represent mine
I'm new on the rap scene, brothers never heard of me
Yet I'm a menace, yo, police wanna murder me
Heini Dark drinker, represent the thinker
My pen rides the paper, it even has blinkers
Think I'll dim the lights then inhale, it stimulates
Floatin' like I'm on the North 95 Interstate
Never plan to stop, when I write, my hand is hot
And expand the lot from the Wiz to Camelot
The parlayer, I'll make your heads bop, pah
I shine a light on perpetrators like a cop's car
From day to night, I play the mic and you'll thank God
I wreck shit so much, the microphone'll need a paint job
My brain is incarcerated
Live at any jam, I couldn't count all the parks I've raided
I hold a MAC-11 and attack a reverend
I contact eleven L's and max in Heaven

One time for your mind, one time (
It sounds clever
)
One time for your mind, one time (
Yeah, whatever
)
One time for your mind, one time
Yo, from '92 to '99

Yeah, that shit was crazy phat, pah, know what I’m sayin'?
But check it, you got another verse for me
I want you to kick it, you know what I'm sayin'?
Kick that shit for the projects, know what I'm sayin'?

[Song 25: The Don]
He's the heartbeat of the people
The ghetto people, and when I say ghetto people
The people who cannot afford to go to big concert
Some of these people do not even have TV, so they can't afford cable
Some of them can afford a radio
So the only thing they can listen to is the music
People the ghetto, people from the projects, street people
Hortical ghetto youth who know what it is to sing about suffering and reality

New York girl, dem a mad over we
New York girl, dem a mad over we
New York girl, dem a mad over we
New York girl, dem a mad over we

Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don
Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don, dance
Inna New York City-city, New York City-city (YEAH!)
(YEAH!) New York City-city, New York City-city

Smoking a escubano, guzzle my second bottle
Hope I don't catch a hommo, grossing our net
Simultaneously making me climb higher
Heinous crimes behind me, search but can't find me
Fuck sadness, had this been you having this lavish
Habitual happiness, at me you wouldn't look backwards
You would have sex on condominium roof decks
So anyone move next, I'll hit you with two TECs
Rocking Roberto Cavalli, no shirt on, convertible Mazi
My Colombiana mommy riding beside me
Every tat mean something, that's my word on my body
I'll have to lean something with that Mossberg shotty
My niggas is ignant, put lead in your pigment
Just 'cause y'all was mad at all the years I was getting it
In '97 the six, '98 the Bentley
Now it's the Ghost Phantom, and y'all can't stand him but

Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don
Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don, dance
Inna New York City-city, New York City-city
New York City-city, New York City-city (Yeah)

Army jacket swag, army jacket green and black
With the square top pocket that snaps, where the gas at?
Pass that, not you, you hold cracks in your ass crack
I never did that, my sock's where my stash was at
Yo, I used to listen to that Red Alert and Rap Attack
I fell in love with all that poetry I mastered that
Cutting school where Preme team and Fat Cat was at
Future not crystal clear yet, Baccarat
Now I'm the one who repping Queens
Way beyond your wildest dreams
Bottles on bottles with sparklers surround my team
That long cash get the baddest bitches out they jeans
Twenty years in this game, looking seventeen
I don't lean: no codeine, promethazine
I just blow green, pick which bitch to bless the king
Although he's on to another chapter
Heavy D gave this beat to Salaam for me to rap to, raaaahhh

Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don
Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don, dance
Inna New York City-city, New York City-city
New York City-city, New York City-city

Yeah, yeah
New York is like an Island, a big Rikers Island
The cops be out wilding, all I hear is sirens
It's all about surviving, same old two-step
Try to stay alive when they be out robbing
I been out rhyming since born knowledge
Like prophet Muhammad said the ink from a scholar
Worth more than the blood of a martyr, so I'ma
Keep it on 'til I see a billion dollars
Keep your friends close and your enemies closer
Love model chocha, mami pop it like she 'pose to
Eyes red shot like I'm never sober
Big time smoker, Indonesian doja
Mini me's you can hold up
Before you end up wet up from my soldier
Don shit, under fire I remain on some calm shit
This for every ghetto in the hood
Nas the Don, Super Cat the Don Dada, understood

Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don
Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don, dance
Inna New York City-city, New York City-city
New York City-city, New York City-city, New York...

[Song 26: everything]
You'll live, and you'll learn
See 'cause you've never been the same as anyone else
Don't think the same as everyone else
You'll live, and you'll learn
See you'll never conclude with anyone else
Don't think the same as everyone else

If I had everything, everything
I could change anything
If I changed anything, I mean anything
I would change everything, oh yeah

Dark boy, don't you cry
There's too much life left in those eyes
Don't you let that face go waterfall
Don't you learn to love your scars and all?
Dark boy, don't you die
They're just human, let them lie
You just know your world and speak your truth
Let them come to you
For you'll love, in your heart
See 'cause you've never been the same as anyone else
Don't think the same as everyone else
This is your call, there are no wrongs
See you'll never conclude with anyone else
Don't think the same as everyone else

If I had everything, everything
I could change anything, I could change anything
If I changed anything, I mean anything
I would change everything, oh yeah

When the media slings mud, we use it to build huts
Irrefutable facts, merciful, beautiful black beloved brother
You fail to embarrass him, harassin' him
To my life, your life pales in comparison
So go write whatever blog, messiness is not ever the God
Do what's necessary, I'm never worried
Listen vultures, I've been shackled by Western culture
You convinced most of my people to live off emotion
That's why we competin', death by the chrome barrel
Forgot the secrets, my Kilimanjaro bone marrow's the deepest
You can peep at the comments, but don't fall for that
We want freedom, I'm a scholar; an almanac
People do anything to be involved in everything
Inclusion is a hell of a drug
Some people have everything they probably ever wanted in life
And never have enough

If I had everything, everything
I could change anything
If I changed anything, I mean anything
I would change everything, oh yeah

From the birth of a child, the world is foul
Excursions of a searchin' child
Should learn to take nothin' personal
A parent hates to watch his baby's face
Takin' his first immunization shots, but this is great
The child's introduction to suffering and pain
Understands without words, nothin' is explained
Or rushed to the brain, lookin' up at his parents' face
Like, "I thought you would protect me from this scary place?"
"Why'd you let them inject me?"
"Who's gonna know how these side effects is gonna affect me?"
Who knew I would grow to meet presidents that respect me?
If Starbucks is bought by Nestlé, please don't arrest me
I need to use your restroom and I ain't buy no espresso
Soon enough, assume the cuffs, the position
Not new to us, since back on the bus sittin'
Said, "Screw that bus!" – boycotted that bus outta business
The future's us, yet every citizen's in prison

If I had everything, everything
I could change anything
If I changed anything, I mean anything
I would change everything, oh yeah

Watch me as I walk through the folly, golly, New York to Saudi
In Italy, I'm Eduardo Baccari
But Nasty the hustler, nasty like mustard gas, sulfur
And I could sell Alaska to Russia, no pressure
My first house, 11,000-square-feet mansion
It was haunted by dead rich whites
Mad a nigga bought his crib to hang up pictures of black Christ
Circular driveways, black cars and black ice
My second house, still in my twenties, illin' with money
Chilled through my spine, spillin' wine, it's funny
Did good for a staircase loiterer, euphoria
What you saw when you seen a teen turn to a warrior
Did every Fourth of July, bustin' in the sky
It was important to a guy who was mob-minded
Future Murciélago driver 'til Lambos got average on me
I started likin' the look like I ain't had no money
Yellow taxi seats over Maybach seats
Just to remind me, just to inspire me
To stay focused, it's a real sick society
Just 'cause I got your support don't mean you're buyin' me
I'm buyin' back the land owned by the slave masters
Where my ancestors lived, just to say a rapper
Made a change, the pants-sagger put plans in action
To lay claim the Pan-African made it happen

You'll live, and you'll learn
See 'cause you've never been the same anyone else
Don't think the same as everyone else
You'll live, and you'll learn
See you'll never conclude with anyone else
Don't think the same as everyone else

If I had everything, everything
I could change anything
If I changed anything, I mean anything
I would change everything, oh yeah

Dark boy, don't you cry
There's too much life left in those eyes
Don't you let that face go waterfall
Don't you learn to love your scars and all
Dark boy, don't you die
They're just human, let them lie
You just know your world and speak your truth
And let them come to you
For you'll love, in your heart
See 'cause you've never been the same as anyone else
Don't think the same as everyone else
This is your call, there are no wrongs
See you'll never conclude with anyone else
Don't think the same as everyone else

[Song 27: I Gave You Power]
Damn, look how muh'fuckers use a nigga
Just use me for whatever the fuck they want
I don't get to say shit
Just grab me, just do what the fuck they want
Sell me, throw me away
Niggas just don't give a fuck about a nigga like me, right
Like I'm a f-, I'm a gun, shit
It's like I'm a motherfucking gun, I can't believe this shit
Word up, word up

I seen some cold nights and bloody days, they grab me, bullets spray
They use me wrong, so I sing this song to this day
My body is cold steel, for real
I was made to kill, that's why they keep me concealed
Under car seats, they sneak me in clubs, been in the hands of mad thugs
They feed me when they load me with mad slugs
Seventeen precisely; one in my head
They call me Desert Eagle; semi-auto with lead
I'm seven inches, four pounds, been through so many towns
Ohio to Little Rock to Canarsie, living harshly
Beat up and battered, they pull me out, I watch as niggas scattered
Making me kill, but what I feel, it never mattered
When I'm empty, I'm quiet, finding myself fiending to be fired
A broken safety, niggas place me in shelves, under beds
So I beg for my next owner to be a thoroughbred
Keeping me full up with hollow heads

How you like me now? I go, "Blaow!"
It's that shit that moves crowds, making every ghetto foul
I might've took your first child, scarred your life or crippled your style
I gave you power, I made you buck-wild
How you like me now? I go, "Blaow!"
It's that shit that moves crowds, making every ghetto foul
I might've took your first child, scarred your life or crippled your style
I gave you power, I made you buck-wild

Always, I'm in some shit! My abdomen is the clip
The barrel's my dick, uncircumcised
Pull my skin back and cock me, I bust off when they unlock me
Results of what happens to niggas shock me
I see niggas bleeding, running from me in fear, stunningly, tears
Fall down the eyes of these so-called tough guys, for years
I've been used in robberies, giving niggas heart to follow me
Placing peoples in graves, funerals made 'cause I was sprayed
I was laid in a shelf with a grenade
Met a wrecked-up TEC with numbers on his chest that say
Five-two-oh-nine-three-eight-five-and-zero
Had a serial defaced, hoping one day, police would place
Where he came from, a name or some sort of person to claim him
Tired of murdering, made him wanna be a plain gun
But, yo, I had some other plans, like the next time the beef is on
I make myself jam right in my owner's hand

How you like me now? I go, "Blaow!"
It's that shit that moves crowds, making every ghetto foul
I might've took your first child, scarred your life or crippled your style
I gave you power, I made you buck-wild
How you like me now? I go, "Blaow!"
It's that shit that moves crowds, making every ghetto foul
I might've took your first child, scarred your life or crippled your style
I gave you power, I made you buck-wild

Yo, weeks went by and I'm surprised
Still stuck in the shelf with all the things that an outlaw hides
Besides me, it's bullets, two vests and then, a nine
There's a grenade in a box and that TEC that kept crying
'Cause he ain't been cleaned in a year, he's rusty, it's clear
He's 'bout to fall to pieces 'cause of his murder career
Yo, I can hear somebody coming in, open the shelf, his eyes bubbling
He said it was on, I felt his palm troubled him, shaking
Somebody stomped him out, his dome was aching
He placed me on his waist; the moment I've been waiting
My creation was for Blacks to kill Blacks
It's gats like me that accidentally go off, making niggas memories
But this time, it's done intentionally
He walked me outside, saw this cat, cocked me back, said, "Remember me?"
He pulled the trigger, but I held on, it felt wrong
Knowing niggas is waiting in Hell for him (Hell for him)
He squeezed harder, I didn't budge, sick of the blood
Sick of them thugs, sick of wrath of the next man's grudge
What the other kid did was pull out, no doubt
A newer me in better shape, before he lit out. He lead the chase
My owner fell to the floor, his wig split
So fast, I didn't know he was hit, it's over wit'
Heard mad niggas screaming, niggas running, cops was coming
Now, I'm happy, until I felt somebody else grab me
Damn!

[Song 28: Take It In Blood]
I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin' like that
I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin' like that
Yeah

I never brag how real I keep it, 'cause it's the best secret
I rock a vest; prestigious. Cuban link flooded Jesus
In a Lex, watchin' 
Kathie Lee & Regis
My actions are one with the seasons
A TEC squeezin'; executioner
Wintertime, I rock a fur, mega popular
Center of attraction
Climaxin'. My bitches, they be laughin'
They high from sniffin' coke off a twenty-cent Andrew Jackson
City lights spark a New York night
Rossi and Martini sippin', Sergio Tacchini, flippin'
Mad pies, low price, I blow dice and throw them
.45 by my scrotum. Manifest the "Do or Die" slogan
My niggas roll in ten M3's
Twenty gods poppin' wheelies on Kawasakis
Hip-hop's got me on some ol' sprayin' shots like a drum roll
Blankin' out, never miscount the shells my gun hold
I don't stunt. I regulate
Henny and Sprite I separate. Watchin' crab niggas marinate
I'm all about TECs, a good jux and sex
Israelite books. Holdin' government names from Ness
MC's are crawlin' out every hole in the slum
You be aight like blood money in a pimp's cum

I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin' like that
I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin' like that
For you wack MC's

Currency is made in the trust of the Messiah. I'm spendin' it to get higher
Earth, Wind and Fire singin' "Reasons" why I'm
Up early, trustworthy as a nine that bust early
Sunshine on my grill, I spill
Remy on imaginary graves, put my hat on my waves
Latter Day Saints say religious praise
I, dolo. Challenge any team or solo
You must be buggin' out — new to my shit. Home on a furlough
Ask around who's laid up, sharp and straight up
Mafioso, gettin' niggas' wakes sprayed up
Skies are misty, my life predicted by a gypsy
I'll one day walk into shots, drunk off champagne from Sicily
This be the drama, I'ma pause like a comma in a sentence
Paragraphs indented
Bloodshot red eyes, high. Yellow envelopes of lye
Openin' cigars, let tobacco fly
Condos are tune-proof. We're lookin' out the sky's moon roof
Shittin' like gin and prune juice
Yo, the system wants the coon's noose. Hang 'em high
Courtrooms filled up. It's off the hook while I
Just wrote a statement, like I'm facin' twenty-years in the basement
Chillin' on a VI with Mumia
For wearin' chrome. I told the judge snakes slither like Sharon Stone
But like Capone, I'm thrown. Yo

I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin' like that
I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin' like that
For you wack MC'sI made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin' like that
(Lyrical, ly-lyrical shine)
I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin' like that
For you wack MC's

Yo, the time is wastin', I use the mind elevation
Dime sack lacin'. Court pen pacin'
Individual, lyrical math abrasion
Psychic evaluation, the foulest nation
We livin' in. Dangerous lives, mad leak and battered wives
A lifestyle on bad streets is patternized
Wise men build and destroy
While the Real McCoy dope fiend named Detroit is still dealin' boy
Coke suppliers actin' biased
'Cause rumors say that niggas wear wires and we liars
But every night, the gat's fired. And everyday, a rat's hired
I still remain the mack flyest in the phat Kani, it's
Just the killer in me. Slash drug dealer, MC
Ex-slug filler, semi mug peeler. Demi
Bottles of Mo'. Yo, simply follow me flow
Put poetry inside a crack pot and blow
Rough hoes pull crack out pussies and butt-holes
Bring the G's and the D's roll, they can't touch those
Why shoot the breeze about it when you could be about it?
My degrees are routed toward the peasy-haired brick housing
And studded-up, thick medallions
Rich niggas transportin' thousands
Foreign cash exchange amountin' to millions
Doors is locked, rocks is chopped, watch the cameras in the ceilings
Trick bitches catchin' mad feelings
Peelin' off in a Lex Jeep, techniques is four-wheelin'
I bet it be some shit when we connect with Stretch
When we catch them sex niggas with the TECs you blessed
Word! So now, it's on. Never wasted a slug
Time is money. When it comes to mine, take it in blood

I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin' like that
I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin' like that
For you wack MC'sI made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin' like that
I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin' like that
For you wack MC's

Yeah. Capone-N-Noreaga
Yeah, yo. Οfficial Queensbridge murderers
Mobb Deep keep it real, though
Motherfuckin' AZ, yo
Mega, (Yo!) Mega, whatever
Scarlett O'Hara, Fox Boogie
East New York
Yambo, Brownsville
Wizard, Far Rockaway
Big Bo, Jersey
Connecticut, DC, Sudan
VA, NC, LA
So on and so on
Big Ha, Houston Fifth Ward
Black Ed, keep it real, Moe

[Song 29: Adam and Eve]
The ghetto Othello, the Moor
Oh my God, they speak venomous on the boy
Oh my Lord, my enemy is fear and I'm sure
Oh my God, they want the end of me 'cause I'm pure
Oh my Lord, discipline for the win, I just go for it
It's a trend for these men to die on their own sword
Journey far, learn who you can be
But you can learn who you are when you around family
Chip off the shoulders of soldiers, on their grizzle
My granddaddy Mack Little married Nannie Little
They passed down wisdom, blessings were given
Pray my sins don't get passed to my children, I made a killin'
I'm alive like the morning star
Court Jordan's for the price on stock, so what the Hornets are?
I need evaluations, I'm savvy, y'all
Eatin' foie gras and caviar, listen

Adam and Eve don't fall too far from the apple tree
Ayy
Adam and Eve, Adam and Eve
Don't fall too far from the apple tree, apple tree

The ghosts of gangsters dance
Chinchillas shake on the hanger, the force of this banger
Yeah, my language advanced, my cadence amazin'
The voice triggers somethin', what is this conundrum?
The clouds scurry, your spirit rumble, a boyish smile
Still puff the loud, it's nothing less than a quarter pound
Savage narrative, every verse that I write
Bursts light, brings awareness to my personal life
After my morning walk, Havana cigar, the ganja spark
See my doctor more, sweat in the sauna or
The spa, spendin' fifty large at the Bellagio
Spent twenty on a bad bitch I hardly know
New girl every night, two girls was every other night
Sexual addiction, gangster tradition
They wanna fuck me, have me under their belt, slightly offended
Yeah, that's how I felt, that's how it ended
I'm just good at existing, existin' in my truth
As long as I enjoy the fruit, yeah

Adam and Eve don't fall too far from the apple tree
Ayy
Adam and Eve, Adam and Eve
Don't fall too far from the apple tree, apple tree

What come first, peace or the paper?
Before I had a piece of paper, peace was in my favor
Before I sat to eat at the table, it had leeches and traitors
Cut the fat from the meat, extract the weak, bon appetit, no bacon
Brothers is swine
It's so hard to trust 'em 'cause my hustle is mine
It's evident they all the same, with gray hair and still mean muggin'
Gray hairs of wisdom, that means you seen somethin', say something
You stay frontin' but these clowns got false crowns, fictitional kings
You broke my heart, Fredo
You bring this thing of ours down to a fable
Be advised my guys dyin', enterprisin' at a boss's table
There's always room at my table
Insecurities is keepin' you disabled
All this money to get, is there less time?
They ain't stopped printin' money, 'cause they made mine
I learned to stretch time, these are the best times
I'm in my neighborhood in stadiums, the Mets' kind
With restaurants and Carbone, spicy rigatoni go hard
A red Bordeaux, oh God

Adam and Eve don't fall too far from the apple tree
Ayy
Adam and Eve, Adam and Eve
Don't fall too far from the apple tree, apple tree

[Song 30: Bye Baby]
I guess you knew and blew a good thing, baby

Bye baby, I guess you knew why I walked away
When we walked to the altar, that was an awesome day
Did counselling, couldn't force me to stay
Something happened when you say I do, we go astray
Why did we mess it up? We was friends, we had it all
Reason you don't trust men, that was your daddy fault
He in the grave – let it go, he no longer living
Said you caught him cheating with mom, fucking other women
Fuck that gotta do with us? Here's the keys to the newest truck
Birkin bags, we burning cash, now baby, do it up
No matter who you fuck, that was before me
Wanted you as my shorty since I saw you screaming
"Hate you so much right now"
Should've saw the meaning, angry black women
Actions of a demon, I'm leaving

I guess you knew and blew a good thing, baby (Bye baby)
You know I'm saying bye-bye (Bye-bye baby)
'Cause I'm saying bye-bye (Bye baby)
'Cause I'm saying bye-bye
I guess you knew and blew a good thing, baby

Bye baby, I guess you know why I had to leave
Seven months in your pregnancy, 'bout to have my seed
Let's take it back some years, rewind it to the happy years
You and your Star Trak fam, I'm thinking you cats are weird
Same time, different year, I was digging y'all flow
Then I tatted you on my arm so niggas would know
I thought no one could stop us, matching gold watches
I was your Johnny Depp, you was my Janis Joplin
Yet, the cuter version, yet, I knew you personally
Better than you knew yourself, and I knew this for certain
Crib in the Dominican, we got away from everybody
You screaming at the racist cops in Miami was probably
The highlight of my life, like "Ha, yo, look at my wife!"
Gangsta, me and 20 cops 'bout to fight, crazy night
Bailed you out, next morning we got clean
Like it never happened, then later we at that Heat game
Just another day in the life, of two people in love
But it wasn't enough, so baby guess what...

I guess you knew and blew a good thing, baby (Bye baby)
OH! OH! AHHHHHHHH! Bye-bye (Bye-bye baby)
I can't believe that this is happening to us
'Cause I'm saying bye-bye (Bye baby) Forever
'Cause I'm saying bye-bye
I guess you knew and blew a good thing, baby

Listen, could you imagine writing your deposition?
Divorce lawyer telling you how this thing gonna be ending?
With you paying out the ass and I'm talking half
Not some, but half, no, serious, half
Half of your soul, half of your heart, you leaving behind
It’s either that or die, I wanted peace of mind
And all I seen was suckers, cowards
Under their breath, saying, "Why did Nas trust her?"
But look at yourself! Speak louder, bruh!
You live with your baby moms
And scared to make an honest woman out of her
And make her your bride, fake pimps, you ain't even a lie
At least I can say I tried, plus enjoyed the ride
Plus we got our little boy, my little joy and pride
He got my nose, my grill, your color, your eyes
Next go round I hope I pick the truest type
And watch me do it all again, it’s a beautiful life, aight?
Goodbye!

(Bye baby) Baby.. baby
You know I'm saying bye-bye (Bye-bye baby)
I can't believe that this is happening to us
'Cause I'm saying bye-bye (Bye baby)
I guess you knew and blew a good thing
You know I'm saying bye-bye
I guess you knew and blew a good thing, baby

Gimme the key back, baby
I want your love back, baby, oh
Gimme the key back, baby, oh
'Til we make love just one more time
Make it seem forever
This is our last and final goodbye
Goodbye

[Song 31: Get Down]
[Chorus: 
James Brown sample
]
"Get–" "Get–" "Get down!"

Uh...
Uh...
Uh...

New York streets
Where killers'll walk, like Pistol Pete, and Pappy Mason
Gave the young boys admiration
Prince from Queens, and Fritz from Harlem
Street legends, the drugs kept the hood from starvin'
Pushin' cars, Nicky Barnes was the '70s
But there's a long list of high-profile celebrities
Worldwide, on the thorough side of things – livest kings
Some died; one guy, one time, one day grabs me
As I'm about to blast heat
40-side of Vernon, I turned while he asked me
"What you up to? The cops gon' bust you"
I was a teen, drunk off brew – stumbled
I wondered if God sent him, 'cause two squad cars entered the block
And looked at us; I ain't flinch when they watched
I took it upstairs, the bathroom mirror, brushed my hair
Starin' at a young disciple
I almost gave my life to what the dice do
Yeah, man, throwin' them bones
Hopin' my ace get his case thrown
His girl ain't wait for him, she in the world straight hoein'
While he lookin' at centerfolds of pretty girls showin' their little cooch
Gangstas don't die, he's living proof
The D.A. who tried him was lyin'
A white dude, killed his mother during the case
Hung jury, now the D.A. is being replaced
Pre-trial hearing is over, it's real for the soldier
Walks in the courtroom, the look in his eyes is wild
Triple-homicide, I sit in the back aisle
I wanna crack a smile when I see him
Throw up a fist for Black Power, 'cause all we want is his freedom
He grabbed a court officer's gun and started squeezin'
Then he grabbed the judge, screams out, "Nobody leavin'
Everybody—"
[Chorus: 
James Brown sample
 & Nas]
"Get down" "Get down!" "Get down" "Get down!"
"Get" "Get" "Get" "Get" "Get" "Get" "Get down!"
Everybody – "Get down" "Get down!" "Get down" "Get down!"
"Get" "Get" "Get" "Get" "Get" "Get" "Get down!"

Some niggas fuck their enemies in their ass when they catch 'em
Weird-ass niggas who dangerous, so don't test 'em
They make you disappear, this a year that I won't forget
Sold CD's, double Platinum, met mo' execs
Southern niggas, independent label, real killers
Know the business, ran Tennessee for years, now they chillin'
They had the coke game somethin' crazy
Sold music out the trunk of their car, that shit amazed me
Put me onto heron blunts, sherm or somethin'
Took a puff, "What the fuck?!" I turned and punched 'em
Southern niggas ain't slow, nigga tried to play me
I left from around them dudes, they cool, but they crazy
Now I'm back around the old school that raised me
New York gangsters, we loungin', out in L.A
See a dude wrote my dog from Pelican Bay
The letter say, "Nas, I got your back, the fools don't play"
I rolled with some Crips down to a Crenshaw funeral
Never saw so many men slaughtered, and I knew the ho responsible
The nigga still alive in a hospital
Midnight, they crept in his room and shot the doctor too
See, my cousin's in the game, thuggin' and thangs
He plugged me with a dame who was half-Mexicano
Gave the ass up, I'm a mack daddy Soprano
She passed me the indigo
But the imbecile, should've never tippy-toed
Thought my eyes were closed
Openin' the hotel room door to let her goons in
But I moved in a manner on some Jet Li shit
I let the hammers blow, wet three kids
See, honey thought I had somethin' to do
With all the drama, 'cause I was with a crew
That had her people killed
Called up my cousin, told him, "I ain't fuckin' with you"
He responded, "Cool," but told me "Out here, this how motherfuckers—"
[Chorus: 
James Brown sample
 & Nas]
"Get down" "Get down!" "Get down" "Get down!"
"Get" "Get" "Get" "Get" "Get" "Get" "Get down!"
Everybody – "Get down" "Get down!" "Get down" "Get down!"
"Get" "Get" "Get" "Get" "Get" "Get" "Get down!"

All I really gotta say, is that...
If that's how our people gon' get down, how we ever gon' get up?
How we ever gon' get up if that's how we get down?
A shame when you really look at it
My folk against your folk, but we all kinfolk
Somebody got to make a change

[Song 32: Street Dreams]
Uh, what, what, uh

Street dreams are made of these
Niggas push Bimmers and 300 E's
A drug dealer's destiny is reachin' a key
Everybody's looking for something
Street dreams are made of these
Shorties on they knees for niggas with big cheese
Who am I to disagree?
Everybody's looking for something

My man put me up for the share, one-fourth of a square
Headed for Delaware with one change of gear
Nothin' on my mind but the dime sack we blazed
With the glaze in my eye, that we find when we crave
Dollars and cents, a fugitive with two attempts
Jakes had no trace of the face, now they drew a print
Though I'm innocent 'til proven guilty
I'ma try to get filthy, purchase a club and start up a realty
For real, G, I'ma fulfill my dream
If I conceal my scheme, then precisely I'll build my C.R.E.A.M. 
The first trip without the clique
Sent the bitch with the quarter brick, this is it
Fresh face, NY plates, got a crooked eye for the Jakes
I want it all, ArmorAll Benz and endless papes
God's sake, what a nigga gotta do to make a half a million
Without the FBI catching feelings? (What, uh)

Street dreams are made of these
Niggas push Bimmers and 300 E's
A drug dealer's destiny is reachin' a key
Everybody's looking for something
Street dreams are made of these
Shorties on they knees for niggas with big cheese
Who am I to disagree?
Everybody's looking for something

From Fat Cat to Pappy, niggas see the cat
Twenty-five to flat, push a thousand feet back
Holdin' gats wasn't makin' me fat, snitches on my back
Livin' with Moms, gettin' it on, flushing crack down the toilet
Two sips from bein' alcoholic
Nine-hundred-ninety-nine thou' from bein' rich
But now, I'm all for it
My man saw it like Dionne Warwick
A wiser team for a wiser dream we could all score with
The cartel, Argentina coke with the nina
Up in the hotel, smokin' on Sessamina
Trina got the fishscale between her
The way the bitch shook her ass, yo, the dogs never seen her
She got me back livin' sweeter, fresh Caesar
Guess, David Robinson's, Walle' moccasins
Bitches blow me while I'm hoppin' in the drop-top BM'
Word is bond (Uh), son (What)
I had that bitch down on my shit  (What, uh) like this (Word)

Street dreams are made of these
Niggas push Bimmers and 300 E's
A drug dealer's destiny is reachin' a key
Everybody's looking for something
Street dreams are made of these
Shorties on they knees, for niggas with big cheese
Who am I to disagree?
Everybody's looking for something

Growin' up project-struck, lookin' for luck, dreamin'
Scopin' the large niggas beamin', check what I'm seein'
Cars, ghetto stars pushin' ill Europeans
G'ing, heard about them old timers OD'in'
Young, early 80's, throwin' rocks at the crazy lady
Worshipin' every word them rope-rockin' niggas gave me
The street raised me up givin' a fuck
I thought Jordans and a gold chain was livin' it up
I knew the dopes, the pushers, the addicts, everybody
Cut out of class just to smoke blunts and drink noddy
Ain't that funny? Gettin' put on to crack money
With all the gun play, paintin' the kettle black hungry
A case of beers in the staircase, I wasted years
Some niggas went for theirs, flippin' coke as they career
But I'm a rebel, stressin' to pull out of the heat, no doubt
With Jeeps tinted out, spendin', never holdin' out
(Uh, what, what, uh)

Street dreams are made of these
Niggas push Bimmers and 300 E's
A drug dealer's destiny is reaching a key
Everybody's looking for something
Street dreams are made of these
Shorties on they knees, for niggas with big cheese
Who am I to disagree?
Everybody's looking for something
Street dreams are made of these
Niggas push Bimmers and 300 E's
A drug dealer's destiny is reaching a key
Everybody's looking for something
Street dreams are made of these
Shorties on they knees, for niggas with big cheese
Who am I to disagree?
Everybody's looking for something

*Gunshot*
"Yeah nigga, what?!"
"Oh, shit!"
"Queensbridge, boy, what?! Yo, what?!"
"Yo, they shot dun, dawg!"
"Yo, yo, lets get the hell outta here y'all, I don't give a fuck-"
(Ongoing screaming)
"Look! We on his back right now
We gotta get the hell outta here, yo!"
"I want some more nigga, come on!"
"Yo, come on run, yo!"
"Watch out, man, yo watch out, watch out, nigga!"
"Yo, yo hol' up, hol' up, hol' up!"
"Yo, I twisted that kid, right?"
"Yeah the hell you did, man"
"Yo why you-"
"Yo, yo, come on though"
(Oh, shit)
"Yo, we gotta got up outta here, yo"
"You think somebody peeped that?"
"Yo, hell yeah, I'm saying, yo, as long as we get rid o-
Get rid of the heat, yo!"
"Fuck that!"
"Get rid of the heat, yo"
*Gunshot*
"C'mon, c'mon, I'm through that shit, c'mon"
"We gotta bounce, yo!"
"Let's bounce!"

[Song 33: Not For Radio]
Escobar season begins
Ay
o, we ain't posin' for no pictures in
 
2018
Candid shit onlyScared motherfuckers

Black Kemet gods (
yeah
), black Egyptian gods (
Let's go
)
Summoned from Heaven, blessed, dressed in only Goyard
Homie go hard like Stone and Robert in a stolen car
Shoot the ballot box, no voter card, they all are frauds (Rrrat!)
Senegal's finest (rrrat!), minerals, diamonds (Rrrat!)
The Earth is cursed but I survive many climates
Calm and thoroughly, they try to Hyman Roth me
John Fitzgerald me, the industry never bought me (You know God sent me here)
Fear will make you reveal who you really are
Feel me, God? Be solid, your foes hold you in ill regard
This ain't knowledge, this is not intense for honored men, women too
Us who can see the same thing, but have a different view (Let's go)
All of a sudden, frontin' niggas knew you from your past
Got all kinds of guys sayin' we go way back
And who y'all comparin' me to is nonsense
Show gratitude in the presence of dominance

I think they scared of us, yeah
I think they scared of us
I think they scared of us, yeah
I think they scared (
To Catholics
)

To Catholics, Moors and Masons
John Hanson was not the first Black pres' to make it (Lies)
Abe Lincoln did not free the enslaved (Lies), progress was made
'cause we forced the proclamation (
Fuck your proclamation!
)
SWAT was created to stop the Panthers
Glocks were created for murder enhancement, for hunting men, circumstances
Edgar Hoover was black, Willie Lynch is a myth
Colombians created crack, the government made stacks (Welcome to America, niggas!)
Reagan had Alzheimer's, that's true
Fox News was started by a Black dude, also true (
Fuck you too!
)
Convinced my experiences were meant to be
Helps me navigate as they validate they treachery
Felt established, fake as he smile, handshake questionable
"Am I good?" he ask, thinkin', "But is he testin' you?" (
Is he testin' you?
)
In my hood, fear does a few things, make you pussy, make you a snitch
Make irrational moves or even turn you to food

I think they're scared of us, yeah
I think they're scared of us
I think they're scared of us, yeah
I think they scared
I think they scared of us, yeah
I think they scared of us (
See, we don't care about what you think about us
)
I think they scared of us, yeah (
What you say about us
)
I think they scared (
You bitch ass! Yeah, yeah, yeah
)

Ayo, that's why they be killing us and shooting us
That's why they feel uncomfortable around us
'Cause of our greatness
You're lucky God made us compassionate
And forgiving
Pssh
Man, they scared of us, Nas
We see that bitch in your eyes

[Song 34: Wrote My Way Out]
I wrote my way out
When the world turned its back on me
I was up against the wall, I had no foundation
No friends and no family to catch my fall
Runnin' on empty, was nothin' left in me but doubt
I picked up a pen and I wrote my way out

I picked up the pen like Hamilton
Street analyst, now I write words that try to channel 'em
No political power, just lyrical power
Sittin' on a crate on a corner, sippin' for hours
Schemin' on a come up, from evenin' to sun up
My man awaitin' trial, misdemeanors, we younger
Courtroom prejudice, insufficient evidence
Jailhouse lawyers, these images are still relevant
Flickerin' lights inside my project hall
Sickenin', the mice crawl all night long
And '87 Reaganism, many pages I've written on
Writin' songs about rights and wrongs and bails bonds
Master bedroom, bigger than the crib that I was raised at
I'm the architect like I wrote the code to Waze app
I'm driven, black Elohim from the streets of Queens
The definition of what 
It Was Written
 means
Know what I mean?

I wrote my way out
When the world turned its back on me
I was up against the wall, I had no foundation
No friends and no family to catch my fall
Runnin' on empty, was nothin' left in me but doubt
I picked up a pen and I wrote my way out

I really wrote my way up out of 6E (I did)
Develop relationships with fiends, I know they miss me (I know)
Before the metrocards, it was tokens, I did the ten speed (Oh)
Never had wrote a rhyme in my life, what was a sixteen?
At sixteen, arrested in housin', trip to the mountains
Came right back (Back), trappin' off couches, watchin' for mouses
Only tools we was posed with (Uh), had a spot, smoke lit (Lit)
The hate is just confusion, pay attention how them jokes switch
Diadora was my favorite, the Mark Buchanans
Mama couldn't afford 'em, I learned everything on the border
That's a big eight, Clicquot parties with private dancers with no mixtape
Bumble Bee Tuna, now we could get steak
I persevered, composition, I kept it close
Competition near, I'm a Spartan without the spear
Three-hundred rhymes, it was written before I wrote it
Opportunity knockin', might miss it, that window closin'
This poetry in motion, I'm a poet

I wrote my way out
When the world turned its back on me
I was up against the wall, I had no foundation
No friends and no family to catch my fall
Runnin' on empty, was nothin' left in me but doubt
I picked up a pen and I wrote my way out

High speed, dubbin' these rhymes in my dual cassette deck
Runnin' out of time like I'm Jonathan Larson's rent check
My mind is where the wild things are, Maurice Sendak
In withdrawal, I want it all, please give me that pen back
Y'all, I caught my first beatin' from the other kids when I was caught readin'
"Oh, you think you smart?" Blaow! Start bleedin'
My pops tried in vain to get me to fight back
Sister tapped my brains, said, "Pssh,you'll get 'em right back"
Oversensitive, defenseless, I made sense of it, I pencil in
The lengths to which I'd go to learn my strengths and knock 'em senseless
These sentences are endless, so what if they leave me friendless?
"Damn, you got no chill,"
 fuckin' right, I'm relentless
I know Abuela's never really gonna win the lottery
So it's up to me to draw blood with this pen, hit an artery
This Puerto Rican's brains are leakin' through the speakers
And if he can be the shinin' beacon this side of the G.W.B and
Shine a light when it's gray out?

I wrote my way out
Oh, I was born in the eye of a storm
No lovin' arms to keep me warm
This hurricane in my brain is the burden I bear
I can do without, I'm here
'Cause I wrote my way out

"—picked up the pen like Hamilton"
"I wrote my way out of the pro—"
"—wrote—"
"—wrote my way out of the projects"
"—pick—"
"—picked up the pen like Hamilton"
"I wrote my way out of the—"
"—wrote—"
"—wrote my way out of the—"
("I wrote my way—")
"—picked up the pen like Hamilton"
"I wrote my way out of the pro—"
"—wrote—"
"—wrote my way out of the projects"
("I wrote my way out")

"Really, I saw, like, a hole in the rap game, so, if I wanted to put my little two cents in the game, then it would be from a different perspective."
(
"I wrote my way out"
)
"I thought that I would represent for my neighborhood and tell their story, be their voice, in a way that nobody has done it. Tell the real story."

[Song 35: Got Ur Self a Gun]
Woke up this mornin' (
Yeah
)
You got yourself a gun (
Yeah, yeah, yeah
)
Got yourself a gun

Yo, I'm livin' in this time behind enemy lines, so
I got mine, I hope you 
got yourself a gun
You from the hood, I hope you 
got yourself a gun
You want beef? Hope you got yourself a gun
And when I see you, I'ma take what I want, so
You tried to front, hope you got yourself a gun
You ain't real, hope you got yourself a gun

My first album had no famous guest appearances
The outcome, I'm crowned the best lyricist
Many years on this professional level
Why would you question who's better? The world is still mine
Tattoo's real, with "God's Son" across the belly, the boss of rap
You saw me in 
Belly
 with thoughts like that
To take it back to Africa, I did it with Biggie
Me and 2Pac were soldiers of the same struggle
You lames could huddle, your team's shook
Y'all feel the wrath of a killer, 'cause this is my football field
Throwin' passes from a barrel, shoulder pads, apparel
But the QB don't stand for no quarterback
Every word is like a sawed-off blast 'cause y'all all soft
And I'm the black hearse that came to haul y'all ass in
It's for the hood by the corner store
Many try, many die, come at Nas if you want a war, get it bloody

I got mine, I hope you got yourself a gun
You from the hood, I hope you got yourself a gun
You want beef? Hope you got yourself a gun
And when I see you, I'ma take what I want, so
You tried to front, hope you got yourself a gun
You ain't real, hope you got yourself a gun, yo

I'm the N, the A to the S-I-R
And if I wasn't, I must've been Escobar
You know the kid got his chipped tooth fixed, hair parted with a
Barber's preciseness, Bravehearted for life, it's
Return of the golden child, son of a blues player
So who are you, player? Y'all awaited the true savior
Puffin' that tropical, cups of that vodka, too
Papi chu's, tore up, wake up in a hospital
Throw up? Never, 'member I do this through righteous steps
You Judas thought I was gone, so in light of my death
Y'all been all happy-go-lucky, bunch of sambos
Call me God's Son with my pants low
I don't die slow, put them rags up like Petey Pablo
This is NASDAQ though, in my Nascar, with this Nas flow
What could beat that? Not a soul reppin'
Hit the record store, never let me go, get my whole collection, yo

I got mine, I hope you got yourself a gun
You from the hood, I hope you got yourself a gun
You want beef? Hope you got yourself a gun
And when I see you, I'ma take what I want, so
You tried to front, hope you got yourself a gun
You ain't real, hope you got yourself a gun

It's the return of the prince, the boss
This is real hardcore, Kid Rock and Limp Bizkit soft
Sip Cris', get chips, wrist glist', I floss
Stick shift look sick up in that Boxster Porsche
With the top cut off, rich kids go and cop The Source
They don't know about the blocks I'm on
And everybody wanna know where the kid go
Where he rest at, where he shop at and dress at
Know he got dough, where does he live? Is he still in the Bridge?
Does he really know how ill that he is?
Got all of y'all watchin' my moves, my watch and my jewels
Hop in my coupe, dodge interviews like that
It's not only my jewels, ice anything, plenty chains
Look at my tennis shoes, I iced that
Who am I? The back twister, lingerie ripper
Automatic leg-spreader, quicker brain-getter
Keepin' it gangsta with ya (Uh)

I got mine, I hope you got yourself a gun
You from the hood, I hope you got yourself a gun
You want beef? Hope you got yourself a gun
And when I see you, I'ma take what I want, so
You tried to front, hope you got yourself a gun
You ain't real, hope you got yourself a gun

Got yourself a gun (Uh)
I got mine, I hope you got yourself a gun
You from the hood, I hope you got yourself a gun
You want beef? Hope you got yourself a gun
And when I see you, I'ma take what I want, so
You tried to front, hope you got yourself a gun
You ain't real, hope you got yourself a gun

[Song 36: Cops Shot the Kid]
The cops used to come around in my neighborhood
"Alright, you kids, stop having so much fun, move along!"
Oh they'd arrest me, you know, especially at night
They had a curfew, niggas had to be home at 11, negros, 12
And you'd be trying to get home, doing your crew runs
And they'd always catch you out in front of a store or something
'Cause you'd be taking shortcuts, right
Cops, "Ree, put your hands up, black boy!"

The cops shot the kid
The cops shot the kid, the cops shot–
The cops shot the kid
The cops shot the kid, the cops shot–
The cops shot the kid
The cops shot the kid, the cops shot–
The cops shot the kid
The cops shot the kid, the cops shot–
The cops shot the kid

I don't wanna hurt nobody
We just came here to party
See a few dames, exchange some names
I'm a top shotta, kid, stay in your lane
The cop shot the kid, same old scene
Pour out a little liquor, champagne for pain
Slap-boxin' in the street
Crack the hydrant in the heat
Cop cars on the creep
Doin' they round-ups, we just watch for the sweep
Yeah, it's hotter than July
It's the summer when niggas die
It's the summer when niggas ride
Together we'll be strong, but forever we divide
So y'all are blowin' my high
Type of shit that's killin' my vibe
White kids are brought in alive
Black kids get hit with like five
Get scared, you panic, you're goin' down
The disadvantages of the brown
How in the hell the parents gon' bury their own kids
Not the other way around?
Reminds me of Emmett Till
Let's remind 'em why Kap kneels

The cops shot the kid
The cops shot the kid, the cops shot–
The cops shot the kid
The cops shot the kid, the cops shot–
The cops shot the kid
The cops shot the kid, the cops shot–
The cops shot the kid
The cops shot the kid, the cops shot–
The cops shot the kid
The cops shot the kid, the cops shot–
The cops shot the kid
The cops shot the kid, the cops shot–
The cops shot the kid
The cops shot the kid, the cops shot–
The cops shot the kid
I still hear him scream

Stay tuned up and down your timeline
This fake news, people is all lyin'
Money is bein' made when a mom cries
Won't be satisfied 'til we all die
Tell me, who do we call to report crime
If 9-1-1 doin' the driveby?
It's certain things I can't abide by
I ain't bein' extreme, this is my side
Talkin' big shit, ready to die
I know every story got two sides
Claimin' he paranoid by the black guy
Cop wanna make it home by nighttime
Just a good kid, he wasn't that guy
Had a little hit, he wasn't that high
Cop gon' claim that it was self-defense
Say he was ridin' dirty so the case rests

The cops shot the kid
The cops shot the kid, the cops shot– (
Workin' nine-to-five
)
The cops shot the kid
The cops shot the kid, the cops shot– (
Tryna stay alive
)
The cops shot the kid
The cops shot the kid, the cops shot– (
Makin' ends meet
)
The cops shot the kid
The cops shot the kid, the cops shot– (
Shot him this week
)
The cops shot the kid
The cops shot the kid, the cops shot–
The cops shot the kid
The cops shot the kid, the cops shot–
The cops shot the kid
The cops shot the kid, the cops shot–
The cops shot the kid
I still hear him scream

[Song 37: Nasty]
[Intro: Nas & 
Big Kap
]
(Y'all ready for Nas?
Queensbridge, y'all ready to see Nasty Nas?
Uh huh, they ready)
Yeah, word
Got some Rémy Martin
And some good-ass cigars, check it out

Ayo, late night, candlelight, fiend with diesel in his needle
Queensbridge leader, no equal
I come from the Wheel of Ezekiel
To pop thousand-dollar bottles of Scotch
Smoke pot and heal the people
Any rebuttal to what I utter get box-cutter'd
Count how many bad honeys I slut, it's a high number
Name a nigga under the same sky that I'm under
Who gets money, remain fly, yeah, I wonder
Eyes flutter, it's love when Nas pops up
Stars get starstruck, panties start drippin'
The ways of Carlito, blaze, torpedo cigars
Drop Rolls, hoes drop clothes
Louis the XIII, freaks, women nice size
I ride like Porsches, thick, brown and gorgeous
It ain't my fault, semi-automatic weapons I brought
The world crazy, I'm rich and I'm girl-crazy
Dick 'em, convince 'em all to praise me
They ideology is confusion, I lose 'em
Fellates me, who hate me? My gun off safety
Since the Tunnel and Skate Key, my jewelry in HD

Silent rage, pristine in my vintage shades
I'm not in the winters of my life or the beginning stage, I am the dragon
Maserati, pumpin' Biggie, the great legend
Blastin', I'm after the actress who played Faith Evans
My little Jackie Onassis, dig?
I'm so high I never land like Mike Jackson's crib
Vest on, .45 still crack ya rib, sacrilege
Talk trash 'bout the Nasty kid
Past nasty now, I'm gross and repulsive
Talk money, is you jokin'?
Cash everywhere, in my bank, in the sofa
In the walls, in the cars, in my wallet, in my pocket
On the floors, ceilings, the safe, bitch, I got it
You envy, but don't offend me, I'm skinny, but still I'm too big for a Bentley
You are your car, what could represent me?
Too godly to be a Bugatti, you honestly
Must design me somethin' Tommy Montana from Queens had before the 90's
Drug dealer car, rush to the bar
Move, niggas! We don't give a fuck who you are
Black card heavy like a magnet in my stitched denims
Pretty women see them saggin'
Bet a hundred stacks niggas'll run it back
Just havin' fun, I ain't even begun to black, light another blunt in fact, haha...

(Nasty) Nasty kid
(Nasty) Yeah...
(Nasty) The kid! (Nasty) Yeah...
(Nasty) Nasty kid (Nasty)

For the hustlers, thick as yellow bitches for the suck of it
Got a bunch of niggas in prison braggin' saying, "It was Nas I used to hustle with"
I display fashions while my lungs engage hashish
Guns on my waist, past this
Since I'm cakin' up, put funds in my safe, laughin'
And joinin' the blunt passin' you niggas was straight assin'
Excuse the vulgarity, I'm still not fully adjusted
Or used to the new fans hearin' me spit rapidly
I never see the whips niggas be claimin' they drivin'
I guess entertainment means blatantly lyin'
Fake it 'til you make it, I've driven those toys
Been in them wars, in the streets, cops kickin' in doors
For my team, nigga, your flow cheap as limousine liquor
I'm no fake rap CD listener
Sit back and roll a mean swisher
For my G's, tell these clowns make room for the king, nigga

[Song 38: Last Real Nigga Alive]
Uhh... uhh, uhh...

Lord have mercy, Jesus Christ
He's just nice, he just slice like a Ginsu
Look at the life that I've been through
I'm the last real nigga alive–that's official
Lord have mercy, Jesus Christ
He's just nice, he just slice like a Ginsu
Look at the life that I've been through (Uhh)
I'm the last real nigga alive–that's official

Y'all don't know about my Biggie wars
Who you thought "Kick in the Door" was for? But that's my heart
Y'all still trippin' off the Jigga shit
Real niggas, listen up, and I'ma tell you how the whole thing start
Off top, I brung Queens up from hard times
Rockin' at The Fever, streets was all mine
It was my version of the blues, droppin' out schools
The crack epidemic had rap representin' new rules
So I got in them shoes – tried 'em, wore them
Wasn't a perfect fit, so I couldn't sport 'em
Young murderers ride, I knew all them
Jungle got shot, Will died, we was warrin'
I wrote it in my album –
I was eighteen when Lake seen the Island, and Lord held me down and
My surroundings started changin', I had a baby
I was makin' my rounds with AZ
Niggas started noticin' my flow, and was open when
The Golden Child closed 'em in, with more style than them older men
Puff tried to start a label, Prince Rakeem had formed Wu-Tang
Snoop and Dre had a new "Thang"
So Puff drove his new Range through Queensbridge Projects
He let me drive it, before 
"Ready to Die"
 hit
Big and I hit blunts, performin' at the Ark
Next thing you knew – Big blew and all the ballin' starts
He had Kim in his crew, I found Fox
Only niggas in New York with number one charts
Big was ahead of his time, him and Raekwon
My niggas – but dig it, they couldn't get along
That's when Ghostface said it on 
The Purple Tape
"Bad Boy bitin' Nas album cover" – wait!
Big told me Rae was stealin' my slang
And Rae told me, out in Shaolin, Big would do the same thing
But, I borrowed from both them niggas
Jigga started to flow like us, but hit with "Ain't No Niggas"
Had much Versace swagger
Big admired the Brooklynite and took him in as Iceberg; the rappers
Today, don't know nothin' about this boss shit
There's more shit to wantin' to be this King of New York shit
Uhh, uhh, uhh...

Lord have mercy, Jesus Christ
He's just nice, he just slice like a Ginsu
Look at the life that I've been through
I'm the last real nigga alive–that's official
Lord have mercy, Jesus Christ
He's just nice, he just slice like a Ginsu (Uhh)
Look at the life that I've been through (Yeah)
I'm the last real nigga alive–that's official

Rap became a version of Malcolm and Martin
Rest in peace, Will – Queensbridge live on
There's some ghetto secrets I can't rhyme in this song
There's some missing pieces I had to leave out
Had lost trust for Steve Stoute
At some point, 'til I got to know him
We old friends – but what's loyal?
Puff soaked Interscope offices with champagne bottles on Steve
And Steve thought the drama's on me
'Cause previously it would've been–against whoever, friends forever
However–I learned, with some niggas, it's all business
But I'm a street dude with morals
Then, this nigga's with Jigga too much
He used to say Jay wanted my spot
I laughed, stayed home, never hung a lot
A quiet man, who used to be alone, plannin'
Baby moms thought I was too quiet, couldn't stand it
She hit the streets – later on, she hittin' the sheets
With a rapper who wanted me on his songs, thinkin' he strong
I taught her how to watch for cars who might follow
Taught her street shit that I know, her weakness was shine, yo
But that's her – I ain't mad, baby
It made me stronger, now I get my paper longer
"Illmatic"
 – I was boss, 
"It Was Written"
 – I flossed
One of the most creative LP's ever to hit stores
In 
The Firm
 I learned 
"I Am..."
 
"Nastradamus"
"QB's Finest"
, "Oochie Wally" faced more problems
I gave it all up, so I could chill at home with Mama
She was gettin' old and sick, so I stayed beside her
We had the best times, she asked would I make more songs
I told her not 'til I see her health get more strong
In the middle of that, Jay tried to sneak attack
Assassinate my character, degrade my hood
'Cause in order for him to be the Don, Nas had to go
The Gam-B-I-N-O rules, I understood
What y'all want, see, I already had
"The Gift and The Curse"
?
Fuck that shit – the first shall be last
I'm the man's man, a rapper's rapper
G-O-D, S-O-N – there'll be none after
I was Scarface, Jay was Manolo
It hurt me when I had to kill him, and his whole squad for dolo (For solo, for dolo..)
Uhh, uhh, uhh...

Lord have mercy, Jesus Christ
He's just nice, he just slice like a Ginsu
Look at the life that I've been through
I'm the last real nigga alive–that's official
Lord have mercy, Jesus Christ
He's just nice, he just slice like a Ginsu
Look at the life that I've been through
I'm the last real nigga alive–that's official

[Song 39: Stay]
Stay

Stay (Oooh-oooh-ooooh-ooooooh
Oooh-oooh-ooooooh, ooh-ooooh)
Stay (-oooh-ooooh-ooooooh
Oooh-oooh-ooooooh, ooooh-ooh-oh)

Peace to the Five Percenters, online engine inventors
Shout to them niggas, family men, bringing home dinners
Watch out for desperate lonely women, hurt your happy home
Miserable and alone, kissable, nice to bone
She not the type deserving of a throne
Her beauty is her curse, she fuck for shoes and a purse
Make me a movie first, can watch you on my phone
I shop in Barcelona, I spend some nights in Rome
Feel like a Knight from England
That's what I named my son, Knight
He was born to be one, that's how my game was won
White 740 Bimmer, licked by an angel's tongue
I'm living dangerous son, she got a man, a famous one
Honey be pocket watching, she got a lot of options
Hard to make up her mind deciding which baller to rock with
Hot to death, slim pickings but I'm not impressed
She got the hottest sex, so I guess I'ma just
Stay

Stay (Oooh-oooh-ooooh-ooooooh
Oooh-oooh-ooooooh, ooh-ooooh)
Stay (-oooh-ooooh-ooooooh
Oooh-oooh-ooooooh, ooooh-ooh-oh)

Even though I don't like you
Next Friday night can't wait to fight you
Locked up I would knife you, don't fuck with you
Last month I even bucked at you, you got locked
I felt bad, wait, do I got love for you?
I might kill you but do I got love for you?
I want you dead under six feet of soil
At the same time, want you here to witness me while you in misery
We hate each other but it's love, what a thug mystery
Years ago they ate the hearts of a slain enemy
We enemies but your hatred could never enter me
Some seek fame 'cause they need validation
Some say hating is confused admiration
Spotlight on me, I still look twenty
Still get money, lady killer pushing a Bentley
Maybe niggas could see too much of their failures
Through a nigga who realer
I don't like you near bruh, but I need you to
Stay

Stay (Oooh-oooh-ooooh-ooooooh
Oooh-oooh-ooooooh, ooh-ooooh)
Stay (-oooh-ooooh-ooooooh
Oooh-oooh-ooooooh, ooooh-ooh-oh)

[Song 40: Purple]
Light it, uhh
Light it up, uhh

The whole city is mine, prettiest Don
I don't like the way P. Diddy did Shyne with different lawyers
Why it's mentioned in my rhymes? Fuck it
It's just an intro, hate it or love it, like it, bump it, or dump it
Write it across the stomach, spell "God's Son"
Life is like a jungle, black, it's like the habitat of Tarzan
Matter of fact, it's harder than most can imagine
Most of my niggas packed in correctional facilities
Half of them passed on, MAC strong, couple of shots
Made the ghost leave a body, now they hauntin' the block
Where they used to stand at, somebody's takin' their place
A younger man perhaps, hand slaps, can't understand that
Same walk, same talk, I wonder can that be possible?
A thug dies, another step inside his shoes
And they will hurt you, layin' low with a bottle
I'm blowin' circles, my state of mind purple

Light it, light it, uhh
Yeah... light it up
Light it up, uh

Y'all just wanna deal with drama
Talk about niggas who've got things, y'all ready to kill his mama
Everything you into is underworld related
You sell your man out, not even your girl is sacred
You don't trust a soul, hold up, you moldin' soldiers
To pull guns quick and always look behind their shoulder
Think of how many dudes died tryna be down with you
Everybody's under six feet of ground, but you
Still standin', still roamin' through the streets, that's real
You a survivor, knowin' all the beef is ill
You got a bunch of thugs with you, even now, that's ready
Trustin' your judgment, quick to put it down, they deadly
The hood love you, but behind your back, they pray for the day
A bullet hit your heart and ambulances take you away
That ain't love, it's hate – think of all the mothers at wakes
Whose sons you killed and you ain't got a cut on your face?
Unmarked police cars roam the streets hard, the heat is God
Somebody tell these shorties reach for the stars
Instead, they tell 'em how to reach through the bars–holdin' a mirror
Lookin' down a tier in jail, makin' weapons to kill ya
Weed smoke, three tokes, nigga, pour more Henny
He sighs with eyes that seen a war too many
Cold-blooded murderers, universal
Hood to hood, blowin' smoke, state of mind is purple

Light it up, light it up, light it up, uhh
Light it up… light it up, light it up, uhh
Uhh… uhh, uhh, light it, light it, uhh

These hot-headed youngsters always get into trouble
Reactin' before thinkin', they easily irritated
And murder's premeditated, it's a fact that we sinkin'
When we should be climbin', in a nutshell, it's just jail
Drug sales, liquor, and diamonds, niggas rewindin'
Instead of movin' forward to blow up, so what's the science?
People shoutin', police pushin' the crowd
And on the ground's a young soldier with meat hangin' out him
Am I hallucinatin' off the hazin'?
Or did I just see a nigga shoot another nigga's face in?
It's a ugly nation, cops circle the block with mug shots
Photograph pictures of suspect faces
It's usually two or three niggas who innocent
But if they lock the wrong ones up, then someone'll snitch
A divide-and-fall strategy, they aren't fair
I dig in my bag of weed that's covered with orange hair
This Color Purple'll make Whoopi give me the pussy
And Celie, Oprah and Danny Glover gots to feel me
This is how I escape the madness
Too much of anything'll hurt you, so my state of mind's all purple

[Song 41: Strong Will Continue]
All I do is stay focused
Looking straight forward at the world and beyond
I feel people pulling me down
I feel some pulling me up
I can't get stuck
I just keep moving forward
I got places to go, man
Let's go

When di armageddon's dark an' dread
A lotta weak heart a weep an' moan
Only di strong will continue, do yuh have it in yuh?
'Cah wi got a journey to go
An' when di battle get sour an' dread
A lotta weak heart a wither an' moan
Only di strong will continue, I know yuh have it in yuh
I know yuh have it in yuh

Hey, di victory's found in truth
Like innocence found in yute
Self-defeat is your own dispute
An', man, yuh put yourself inna yuh own shoes
Either you're winnin' or losin'
Don't yuh get it confused
Play a star an' yuh know yuh own movie
Playin' of di role yuh choose, so
Stand up an' fight if yuh know seh you're right
An' know yuh will neva fail
Tippin' di scale an' di wind shall prevail
An' di boat shall foreva sail
Hey, there ain't nuh stoppin' or cruisin'
Even when you're battered an' bruised
Outrun all di sprinters on Mount Olympus
My God's tuffer dan Zeus

When di armageddon's dark an' dread (
Uh, I get up and make it happen
)
A lotta weak heart a weep an' moan (Uh, uh, I get up and we get it cracking)
Only di strong will continue, do yuh have it in yuh?
'Cah wi got a journey to go
An' when di battle get sour an' dread (I get up and I get it going)
A lotta weak heart a wither an' moan (We get up and we keep it flowing)
Only di strong will continue (Yeah), I know yuh have it in yuh (Yeah, yeah)
I know yuh have it in yuh

Uh, as I walk through the valley of the shadow of death
New York to Cali, for the money, power, respect
It's a journey, some'll get left behind
'Cause in life, you cannot press rewind
Get it right, you only have one first chance
To make one first impression that lasts a lifetime
Reputation supersedes itself
Do you believe in Hell? Babylon greed for wealth
Do you deceive yourself and let your ego swell?
And disregard those who most need your help
Thick skin, the dark won't take my soul
Survive spiritual wars, see my welts
And the evil's felt, but the faith is stronger
I saw grown men fall when I was a youngster
But I clench my fists, ready to go against whoever
Tie my Timbs and rise in the end

When di armageddon's dark an' dread (Uh, I get up and make it happen)
A lotta weak heart a weep an' moan (Uh, uh, I get up and we get it cracking)
Only di strong will continue, do yuh have it in yuh?
'Cah wi got a journey to go
An' when di battle get sour an' dread (I get up and I get it going)
A lotta weak heart a wither an' moan (We get up and we keep it flowing)
Only di strong will continue (Yeah), I know yuh have it in yuh (Yeah, yeah)
I know yuh have it in yuh

Huh, nuh man live forever, but neva say neva
Every good, he waan betta, just be a go getta
An' always be clever in every endeavor
'Cah drastic time call for drastic measure
Yuh birthright to pleasure from yuh navel string sever
Di land an' di treasure, work for whatever
Jah said don't be a beggar, di Alpha Omega
Wi' bless every soul, nuh matta which name yuh prefa
Di immortal steppa
Believe in every skin, nuh matta which color they are
Wi neva let wi don't know here which kinda weather
You're destined to rise like di Son of Rebecca, don't stop for a second
Every man reckon, it sure would be good to be there
Whether Zion or Mecca
When di gates are finally closed
An' di saints guh marchin' in

When di armageddon's dark an' dread (Uh, I get up and make it happen)
A lotta weak heart a weep an' moan (Uh, uh, I get up and we get it cracking)
Only di strong will continue, do yuh have it in yuh?
'Cah wi got a journey to go
An' when di battle get sour an' dread (I get up and I get it going)
A lotta weak heart a wither an' moan (We get up and we keep it flowing)
Only di strong will continue (Yeah), I know yuh have it in yuh (Yeah, yeah)
I know yuh have it in yuh

I'm a street lifer, always harrassed by the cee ciphers
Chief like Geronimo with his peace pipe
I emerged from the street life
This for the homies who relate, know what it be like
My QB life takin' a turn to the Louis XIII life
Twisted and mangled sort of like Bruce Lee life
Cursed with his son Brandon
If that's you and me, Knight, I pray our fates greater
I speak life, I still matter as a rapper, not doubtin'
Even Toni Braxton signed a deal with Craig Kallman
How in, the hell am I supposed stay comfy
When I pay child support, alimony monthly?
Got Maseratis and Ferraris
Only like a woman who's a rider, but only ho's want me
Single life crazy, niggas wives on me
I say "Stay faithful," they say their man corny
So I'm, stuck with some married woman, so fine
Cheatin while they husband rushing on the 40-yard line
Wonder if this is what my ex did the whole time
Good niggas seem to always end up with some hard times, hope not
If a pimp slippin and a ho plot
Ain't nothin to a G in a two-tone drop, kid
And it don't stop, see a nigga dissapearin'
With the baddest honeys in the whole spot, yeah

[Song 42: Hip Hop Is Dead]
[Intro: will.i.am & (
Nas
)]
Hip hop, hip hop (Ugh!) is dead
(
Had to flip this track again, y'all!
)
Hip, hip hop, hip hop (Ugh!) is dead
Hip, hip hop (Ugh!)
Hip, hip hop is dead (
NYC! Dirty South!
)
Hip, hip hop (
West Coast!
)
Hip hop (
Midwest!
)
Hip hop (Let's go!)

If hip hop should die before I wake
I'll put an extended clip and body 'em all day
Roll to every station, wreck the DJ
Roll to every station, wreck the DJ
If hip hop should die before I wake
I'll load an extended clip and body 'em all day
Roll to every station, wreck the DJ
Roll to every station, wreck the DJ
(
Hip hop just died this morning
And she's dead, she's dead
)

Yeah, people smoke, chill, party, and die in the same corner
Get cash, live fast, body their man's mama
Quick fast, trigger fingers on the llama
Revenge in their eyes, Hennessy and the ganja
Word to the wise, with villain state of minds
Grindin', hittin' Brazilian dimes from behind
Grindin', hittin' Brazilian dimes from behind
(Grindin', hittin' Brazilian dimes from behind)
Whenever, if ever, I roll up, it's sown up
Any ghetto will tell ya, "Nas helped grow us up"
My face once graced promotional Sony trucks
Hundred million in billin', I helped blow them up
Gave my man my right, I could have went left
So, like my girl Foxy, the kid went Def
So, people, who's your top 10?
Is it MC Shan? Is it MC Ren?

If hip hop should die before I wake
I'll put an extended clip and body 'em all day
Roll to every station, wreck the DJ
Roll to every station, wreck the DJ
If hip hop should die before I wake
I'll load an extended clip and body 'em all day
Roll to every station, wreck the DJ
Roll to every station, wreck the DJ
(
Hip hop just died this morning
And she's dead, she's dead
)

The bigger the cap, the bigger the peeling
Come through, something ill, missing the ceiling
What influenced my raps? Stick-ups and killings
Kidnappings, project buildings, drug dealings
Criticize that – why's that?
'Cause Nas rap is compared to legitimized crack
'Cause we love to talk on nasty chickens
Most intellectuals will only half-listen
So you can't blame jazz musicians
Or David Stern with his NBA fashion issues
"Oh, I think they like me, in my white tee"
You can't ice me, we here for life, B
On my second marriage, hip hop's my first wifey
And for that, we not taking it lightly
If hip hop should die, we die together
Bodies in the morgue lie together, all together now

If hip hop should die before I wake
I'll put an extended clip and body 'em all day
Roll to every station, wreck the DJ
Roll to every station, wreck the DJ
If hip hop should die before I wake
I'll load an extended clip and body 'em all day
Roll to every station, wreck the DJ
Roll to every station, wreck the DJ
(
Hip hop just died this morning
Hip hop just died this morning
Hip hop just died this morning
And she's dead, she's dead
)

Everybody sound the same, commercialize the game
Reminiscing when it wasn't all business
It forgot where it started
So we all gather here for the dearly departed
Hip-hopper, since a toddler
One homeboy became a man, then a mobster
If it dies, let me get my last swig of vodka
R.I.P. – we'll donate your lungs to a rasta
Went from turntables to MP3's
From Beat Street to commercials on Mickey D's
From gold cables to Jacob's
From plain facials to Botox and face lifts
I'm looking over my shoulder
It's about 80 people from my hood that showed up
And they came to show love
Sold out concert and the doors are closed shut

[Song 43: No Introduction]
J.U.S.T.I.C.E. League

PS 111 had free lunch, embarrassed but managed to get a plate (Plate)
We was kids hungry, mom's working, I was famished, she gettin' home late (Late, late)
So I decided now I'm in charge, either stay full or starve
Corner store like "Mister, spare-a-quarter", before Air Jordans, Kareem Abdul-Jabbars
Tryna cop quarters and tryna move that hard
Roll with a shooting squad
How could I not succumb? How could I not partake?
Fifteen, I got a gun, sixteen, I robbed a train
Licked off a shot for fun, what's got inside my brain?
A hustler's job ain't done 'til he becomes a king
But I'm a righteous son, despite I'm in the midst of
Dudes who switch up and change
They wanna carry me like I'm some kind of lame
I never let them though, I just forgive them though
Either that or the pistol blow

"Say, yeah!
Haha, thank ya!
Ahhh, Hallelujah!
Y'all don't hear me now! Somebody help me!"

I remember early mornings, syrup sandwiches, sugar water, yeah
Walking up the dark stairwells, elevators was out of order, yeah
Worth two hundred million now
Bicentennial nigga, flat screens and condominiums
Brazilian women on Xannies, they pulling off panties
I'm pushing forty, she only twenty-one
Don't applaud me, I'm exhausted, G
Me and my red cup, my blunt and my red cup
Y'all wouldn't know me without one, I keep a fresh cut
Remember talking to Biggie inside his Lex truck
Said stay fly when you bummy, keep your pajamas Armani
Hood forever, I just act like I'm civilized
Really what's in my mind is organizing a billion Black motherfuckers
To take over J.P. and Morgan, Goldman and Sachs
And teach the world facts and give Saudi they oil back

"Say, yeah!
Haha, thank ya!
Ahhh, Hallelujah!
Y'all don't hear me now! Somebody help me!"

1990's Polo Ralph Lauren on him
Gone a few years, the whole world snoring on him
Girls all up on him
I spread 'em, hit 'em and dead 'em
She says, third leg from a legend is sheer heaven
She says, it is the greatest loving
The tales you hear is the truth on me
Who wasn't the most faithful husband
Reveal my life, you will forgive me
You will love me, hate me, judge me, relate to me
Only a few will, this how it sounds when you're too real
They think it's just music still
Well I am a graphic classic song composer
Music notes on sheets, I wrote this piece to get closure
Some of y'all might know Kelis, this goes to her with love
Also goes to y'all, let's see
The craziest things already happened to me
So either you'll be laughing at me or you're laughing with me, ha

"Say YEAH!
Haha, thank ya!
Ahhh, Hallelujah!
Y'all don't hear me now! Somebody help me!"

[Song 44: You’re Da Man]
Uh, uh
Yo

They plan was to knock me out the top of the game
But I overstand they truth is all lame
I hold cannons that shoot balls of flame
Right in they fat mouth then I carve my name
Nas too real, Nas, true king
It's however you feel, go 'head, you swing
Your arms too short to box with God
I don't kill soloists, only kill squads
Fame went to they head, so now it's "Fuck Nas"
Yesterday you begged for a deal, today you tough guys
I seen it coming soon as I popped my first bottle
I spotted my enemies tryna do what I do
Came in with my style, so I fathered you
I kept changing on the world since Barbeque
Now you wanna hang with niggas I hung with
Fuck bitches I hit, it's funny I once said
If I ever make a record, I'll take a check
And put something away for a rainy day to make my exit
But look at me now, ten years deep
Since the project bench with cracks in my sock, 'sleep
I never asked to be top of rap's elite
Just a ghetto child tryna learn the craft of the streets
But look at me now

You're the man, you're the man
You're the man, you're the man
You're the man, you're the man
You're the man, you're the man
You're the man, you're the man

Now wait a sec', give me time to explain, women and fast cars
And diamond rings can poison a rap star
Was suicidal, high, smoking so much lye
I saw a dead bird flying through a broken sky
Wish I could flap wings and fly away
To where black kings in Ghana stay
So I could get old, my flesh rot away
But that'll be the day when it's peace
When my gat don't need to spray
When these streets are safe to play
Sex with death, indulge in these women
Vision my own skeleton swimming in eternal fire
Broads play with pentagrams in they vagina
Like the Exorcist, then they gave birth to my seeds
I beg for God's help, why they love hurting me?
I'm your disciple, a thug certainly
I'm the N, the A to the S-I-R
If I wasn't, I must've been Escobar
.45 in my waist, staring at my reflection
In the mirror, sitting still in the chair like Mike Concepcion
When everything around me got cloudy
The chair became a king's throne, my destiny found me
It was clear why the struggle was so painful
Metamorphosis, this is what I changed to
And God, I'm so thankful

You're the man, you're the man
You're the man, you're the man
You're the man, you're the man
You're the man, you're the man
You're the man, you're the man
You're the man, you're the man
You're the man

Yo, ugh, look, look, ugh, that's that bitch Wiz was fuckin' (Haha)
Damn, that's fucked up
Nigga, let's get high, nigga (Roll them dice, nigga, hurry up)
Highest to the sky, it's four hundred in here, nigga
What the fuck is you niggas talkin' 'bout, nigga?
One, one, one, all around the bar
Come on, let's get high, nigga, oh, shit, oh (Oh)
Four fifty-six, nigga, shut the fuck up
Fuck y'all niggas, run my fuckin' money (Run that back)
Run that back, man (Bust it back)
I gotta get high, man, you got weed? (Run that back)
Run it back? Alright, run it back, c'mon

[Song 45: Friends]
 (David Zé)
Mkulukulu ki mene mene kiango ma puto
Mkulukulu ki menemene kiango ma puto
Nxi mukanu di lola vu maku

Wawe undenge
Wawe undenge
Wawe undenge

These later days in Babylon as I watch your children grow
An' di years dem carry on an' I miss yuh even more
Still I send dem guh to school an' tell dem what dem fi know
All a mi friend dem mi salute, Daddigon, Lenny Screw
Anodda year has come an' past, man a drop like mornin' dew
Uncle Warrick sick an' gone when him couldn't catch a flu
Picka T, yuh a mi Don, respect long an' overdue
When nut'n neva did a gwaan, yuh still have on sum'n new
Our friendship eva last all when one minus from few
Yes, wi surely had a blast, we're like family, mi an' yuh
Anuh every path yuhcross lead to somebody weh true
Of di many dat are called, only chosen is a few

A di real friends dat serve yuh long
Your memories might fade
Your real friends will serve yuh long
Sunshine or rain
Your real friends will serve yuh long
Acquaintances will fade
Your real friends won't do yuh wrong
Real friend don't change

Only talking with winners, a loser or two got my number
Still they think they real but they just really awfully bitter
Salty niggas hate the smarter ones, these are the doubters
Who sour 'bout my run, I barely made it out the slums
My value high 'cause I do more than rap about a gun
I made money for niggas, y'all never looking out for none
I helped millionaires get to that very position
Some real millionaires. See, that's ill, 'cause look at statistics
Real millionaires and I ain't talking ghetto riches, thorough business
You mistreating niggas, heard your folks bleed in prison
You ain't a G and if you was I don't recall
Who would roll with y'all, bunch of fucking know-it-alls who's dough is small
Look what's it come to our rapport's good no more
We was good before till I saw what type a dude you took me for
We had a chance to take paper down, what I took was more
Because of hatred, opportunity wasted

Your real friends will serve yuh long
Your car an' clothes will fade
Your real friend won't do yuh wrong
Real friend don't change, hey

Your real friend won't run in war, nuh care what di cost is
Yuh real friends are in for all di wins an' di losses
Fi real! Nuh question at all, dem ready fi rise di tallest
Tek to di enemies all for one an' one for all dis
Real friend will hear yuh out, nuh secret feelings
Real friends won't sell yuh out, nuh bargain pleadin'
For real, always lookin' out a meal
When outside a drought your real friend won't hide yuh out, no

Your real friends will serve yuh long
When all else fails
Your real friend won't do yuh wrong
Real friend don't change

May laughter from backstabbers turn to tears faster
I wish for you no snake shall slither past ya you have to
Keep your vision clear cause only a coward lives in fear
My surroundings got only real powerful niggas here
Real men we have a code of ethics, no question
No jealousies, no feminine tendencies, we expecting
No gossip, no phony logic, no counting your homey pocket
Spare no expense for legal defense if your homey locked up
No keeping tabs on who was the last who looked out
Selfishness that's a character flaw, no holding out
Yo, what happened to the honor? You're dealing with sensitive Primadonna drama
Teflon love for my dudes who solid

Your real friends will serve yuh long
Your memories might fade
Your real friends will serve yuh long
Sunshine or rain, eh
Your real friends will serve yuh long, woe ya woe
When all else fails
Your real friends won't do yuh wrong
Real friend don't change

Now plentiful
Or scantily
My cup be full
Or emptily
Wid arm in arms
We'll all trod on
Through destiny
A friend dat's true
Is there for me
Respect is due
They care for me
Should I be down
Or even out
They're next to me
Hey

Your real friends will serve yuh long
Your memories might fade
Your real friends will serve yuh long
Sunshine or rain, hey
Your real friends will serve yuh long, woe ya woe
When all else fails
Real friends won't do yuh wrong
Real friend don't change
Real friend don't change
Real friend don't change
Real friend don't change
Real friend don't change

[Song 46: Rewind]
Listen up, gangstas and honeys with your hair done
Pull up a chair, hon', and put it in the air, son
Dog, whatever they call you, God, just listen
I'll spit a story backwards, it starts at the endin'
The bullet goes back in the gun
The bullet holes close in this chest of a nigga, now he back to square one
Screamin', "shoot don't please", I put my fifth back on my hip
It's like a VCR rewindin' a hit
He put his hands back on his bitch, my caravan doors open up
I jumped back in the van, they closin' shut
Goin' reverse, slowly prepared
My nigga Jungle utters out somethin' crazy like, "Go he there"
Sittin' back in his chair, we hittin' the roach
The smoke goes back in the blunt, the blunt gets bigger in growth
Jungle unrolls it, put his weed back in the jar
The blunt turns back into a cigar
We listen to Stevie, it sounded like heavy metal fans
Spinnin' records backwards of AC/DC
I give my niggas dap, jump out the van, back first
Back upstairs, took off the black shirt
I'm in the crib with the phone to my ear
Listen up so y'all can figure out the poem real clear
The voice on the phone was like, "Outside right we"
So with my mouth wide, holdin' my heat
Bullets I had plenty to squeeze, plenty for you
'Cause Jungle said, "Block your on enemy's the"
Hung up the phone, then the phone rang
I'm laid in the bed, thinkin' about this pretty young thing
Who left, she came back, her clothes just fell to the rug
She fell to my bed and gave me a hug
I told her, "No hell," she talkin' 'bout, "Me kiss"
Bobbed her head then spit a nut back in my dick
Started suckin' with no hands, a whole lot of spit
Then got up and put her bra back on her tits
Got fully dressed and told me, "Stressed really I'm"
Picked up her Gucci bag and left a nigga behind
Walkin' through the door, she rang the bell twice
I vomited vodka back in my glass with juice and ice
The clock went back from three to two to one
And that's about the time the story begun
That's when I first heard the voicemail on the cell
It said, "Son, we found that nigga we gotta kill"

Ayo, son, ayo, son
, you hear me? You hear me?
Listen, man
This dude right on the block right now, man
I found him, right now, I see him right now
Let's kill him
Yo, this Nas, leave it, peace

[Song 47: What Goes Around]
Yeah

Ayo, it's poison
Ecstasy, coke, you say it's love, it is poison
Schools where I learned, they should be burned, it is poison
Physicians prescriptin' us medicine which is poison
Doctors injectin' our infants with the poison
Religion misoverstood is poison
Niggas up in my hood be gettin' shot, given poison

In hospitals, shots riddle the block
Little children and elderly women run for they lives
Drizzlin' rain come out the sky every time somebody dies
Must be out my fuckin' mind, what is this, the hundredth time?
Sendin' flowers to funerals, readin' "Rest In Peace"
You know, the usual, death comes in threes
"Life is short" is what some nigga said
Not if you measure life by how one lives and what he did
And funny how these black-killer companies is makin' money off us
Fast food, Cola, soda, Skull and Bone crosses

It's all poison
Ecstasy, coke, you say it's love, it is poison
Schools where I learned, they should be burned, it is poison
Physicians prescriptin' us medicine which is poison
Doctors injectin' our infants with the poison
Religion misoverstood is poison
Sisters up in my hood try to do good, given choices

When pregnant, drop out of school or have abortions
Stop workin', hopin' that they find a man that will support them
Up late night, on they mother's cordless
Thinkin' a perm or bleachin' cream will make them better, when they gorgeous
White girls tannin', liposuction
Fake titties are implanted, fake lips, that's life destruction
Light-skinned women, bi-racial, hateful
Toward themselves, denyin' even they blood
I don't judge Tiger Woods, but I
Overstand the mental poison that's even worser than drugs

Yo, it's poison
Ecstasy, coke, you say it's love, it is poison
Schools where I learned, they should be burned, it is poison
Physicians prescriptin' us medicine which is poison
Doctors injectin' our infants with the poison
Religion misoverstood is poison
Radio and TV, poison
White Jesus, poison
And any thoughts of takin' me down is poison
Who want beef now? My heat shall anoint them, plaow

Never to worry
All the wrong-doers got it comin' back to 'em a thousand times over
Every dog has its day, and everything flips around
Even the most greatest nation in the world has it comin' back to 'em
Everybody reaps what they sows, that's how it goes
Innocent lives will be taken, it may get worse
But we'll get through it, y'all, be strong

The China-man built the railroad
The Indians saved the Pilgrim
And in return, the Pilgrim killed 'em
They call it Thanksgiving, I call your holiday "Hell-day"
'Cause I'm from poverty, neglected by the wealthy
Me and my niggas share gifts e'ryday like Christmas
Slay bitches, and party e'ryday like this is the last
I'm with my heckles, connectin' and we hittin' the lab
This is my level, fuck if it get you mad

It's all poison
All of my words to enemies, it is poison
Rappers only talk about keys, it's all poison
How could you call yourself MC's? You ain't poison
Think about the kids you mislead with the poison
And any thoughts of takin' me down is all poison
Who want beef now? My heat shall anoint them, plaow

What goes around comes around, my nigga
And what goes up, it must come down, my nigga
The soldiers found below the ground, my nigga
Just hold it down, we older now, my nigga
What goes around comes around, my nigga
And what goes up, it must come down, my nigga
The soldiers found below the ground, my nigga (Uh)
Just hold it down, we older now, my nigga

This nigga Ike with the Iverson jersey, light-skinned with herpes
Fuckin' sisters in Harlem, Brooklyn and D.C
This is the problem, 'cause he never tell 'em he got it
From lettin' fags suck him off, Rikers Island in '93
Drives a Benz, hangs at all the parties
All the concerts, backstage where the stars be
Rockin' they shirts in bitches' faces like clockwork
"What's your name? Where you from?"
Chain blingin', thinkin' girls everywhere is dumb
Takin' pride in ruinin' their lives
So they could never have babies, and they could never be wives
He never used a condom, give him head? He got ya
Met the wrong bitch and now he dead from the monster AIDS
I contemplate, believin' in karma
Those on top could just break and won't be eatin' tomorrow
I know some bitches who be sleepin' on niggas' dreams
They leave, when that nigga blow, she the first bitch on her knees
Knowin' dudes that's neglectin' they seeds
Instead of takin' care of 'em, they spendin' money on trees
I pray for you deadbeat daddies 'cause when them kids get grown
It's too late for you, now you old and you gettin' shitted on
It's all scientific, mystic, you know, the Earth and the stars
Don't hesitate to say you heard it from Nas
What is destined shall be
George Bush-killer 'til George Bush kills me
Much blessings, be healthy, remember

What goes around comes around, my nigga
And what goes up, it must come down, my nigga
The soldiers found below the ground, my nigga
Just hold it down, we older now, my nigga
What goes around comes around, my nigga
And what goes up, it must come down, my nigga
The soldiers found below the ground, my nigga
Just hold it down, we older now, my nigga

[Song 48: Nobody]
(Hit-Boy)

One city, one country, one state
Some place to be nobody
Some place to be
Some place you wouldn't know probably
Yeah, yeah

If Chappelle moved to Ghana to find his peace then I'm rollin'
Where the service always roamin', I'm packin' my bags and goin'
It's a challenge in that, it's a balancin' act
Visit beautiful places, there's more out here than the trap
Houses in Long Island, they always found 'em
House in the South, a nigga barely got out
Sunny L.A., remеmber calls with Dr. Dre
He told mе, "Don't let the palm trees fool you, nigga, be safe"
Me and my higher self, we often would speak
Somehow we lost the connection, might meet at Joshua Tree
And it's been bothering me, too many wavy women
Gotta log outta IG, can't be my age DM'in' (Haha)
No kiddin', it's hard to move like a civilian
I write the truth 'cause I live it, not like you musical niggas
We did it big and they bigots, they'd rather shoot than write tickets
What it feel like to go get it? What it feel like to go miss it?

In one city, one country, one state
Some place to be nobody
Some place to be
Some place you wouldn't know probably
Some place to be nobody

My dawg bought a plane, said "Let's go to Paris"
That's where baguettes are from, French bread that's long and narrow
I like the other definition, rectangular carats
The concept of this song is rather esoteric
This girl said in Grenada we should go get married
Broke the meanin' down of the Virgin Mary
And you got your own place
My favorite part of the night when you text me that you made it home safe (
I'm home
)
I'm contemplatin' at the home base
How I'm used to breakfast in the ghetto, sippin' OJ
That's a picture right there, a moment in time
Before anybody wanted a photo of mine
Before the internet energy and social decline
Destroyed the vibe, foolin' us with the headlines
(Keepin' us blind) Vultures eat you alive
(Take heed to the signs) Wishin' I'd find

One city, one country, one state
Some place to be nobody
Some place to be
Some place you wouldn't know probably
Some place to be nobody (Life)

All my time has been focused on my freedom now
Why would I join 'em when I know that I can beat 'em now?
They put their words on me, and they can eat 'em now
That's probably why they keep on tellin' me I'm needed now
They tried to box me out while takin' what they want from me
I spent too many years livin' too uncomfortably
Making room for people who didn't like the labor
But wanted the spoils, greedy, selfish behavior
Now let me give it to you balanced and with clarity
I don't need to turn myself into a parody
I don't, I don't do the shit you do for popularity
They clearly didn't understand when I said, "I Get Out" apparently
My awareness like Keanu in 
The Matrix
I'm savin' souls and y'all complainin' 'bout my lateness
Now it's illegal for someone to walk in greatness
They want the same shh, but they don't take risks
Now the world will get to see its own reflection
And the anointed can pursue their own direction
And if you're wrong and you're too proud to hear correction
Walk into the hole you dug yourself, fuck a projection
See me in my freedom takin' all my land back
They said a lot against me thinkin' I'd just stand back
I got my legs beneath me, I got my hands back
A lot of people sabotaged, they couldn't stand that
I turned the other cheek, I took blow after blow
There's so much crisis in the world 'cause you reap what you sow
When you keep what you know is meant for someone else
The ditch you dig for them, you might just end up in yourself
I'm in the secret place, I keep a sacred space
They keep showin' their hands, but keep hidin' their face
If I'm a messenger, you block me then you block the message
So aggressive, the world you made is what you're left with
Pride and ego over love and truth is fuckin' reckless
Y'all niggas got a death wish, the stupid leaves me breathless

Some place to be, yeah
Ain't duckin' nothin'
Just might have to build my own city
Where y'all need a real nigga passport to enter
Ms. Hill, we ain't goin' nowhere
They gon' have to deal with us
Make 'em uncomfortable, hahaha, yeah

[Song 49: Trust]
It's like a cold story.. repeated over and over
In the winters of my mind, yeah
This shit be real, man..
Shit's crazy out here..
Yo yo, yo what up y'all?
That's my niggas over there, word

If you scared to take chances, you'll never have the answers
I could tell the future of a dude how his stance is
Wonder will he shoot, then you should study where his hands is
Is he gon' cock it and pop it? His waistband big
But he don't have that thing in him, slangin' just ain't in him
Body language is off, he's soft
But soft niggas all a sudden start dumpin', frontin'
'Cause he feel a way: my niggas say the eyes is a giveaway
One look could tell me if you really came to kill me
Be the quiet nigga lookin' lame with the milli
Who that over there creepin'? Who homie by the tree?
Better safe than sorry, look at p-noid me
Few machine guns close, we could squeeze all three
Be a cold day in hell 'fore they creep on me
It's a lesson every premonition
Lot of niggas killed 'cause they wasn't payin' attention, listen

I want a bitch I can trust, some niggas I can trust
Accountants lookin' over my figures I can trust
A lawyer that's fightin' for my decisions I can trust
Damn my nigga, trust, I can never get enough
Or Rugers I can trust, shooters I can trust
Goons that know how to spot out a Judas I can trust
And if I can't trust you, the fuck is you here for?
Some of you niggas' true colors becomin' clear more

It's been so long, can't remember how we begun this war
This is a ever-lasting thunderstorm, 'cause guns went off
I see your moms, she still speak
She don't know I ain't cool with her son no more
It's old shit, see, forever we holdin' this grudge
Takes real men to squash beef, end it with hugs
We buried our dead, been years, why should I worry 'bout him?
Constantly watchin' my back, plus niggas tellin' I dread
Another day I put a family in black
Though I be calm and relaxed
Though I know somehow it will come back
Even if I'm in the right, 'cause still a life is a life
What was it worth to see you covered in dirt?
It's quite redundant, whether you the hunter or the hunted
Mothers cry, no statute of limitation on a homicide
Just tattoos of my niggas' names
I wonder, will it change? Let's ride…

I want a bitch I can trust, some niggas I can trust
Accountants lookin' over my figures I can trust
A lawyer that's fightin' for my decisions I can trust
Damn my nigga, trust, I can never get enough
Or Rugers I can trust, shooters I can trust
Goons that know how to spot out a Judas I can trust
And if I can't trust you, the fuck is you here for?
Some of you niggas' true colors becomin' clear more

It's rare I listen to niggas who never been in my position
A caterpillar can't relate to what an eagle envisions
From the mind of a man who went at it with killers
Sit down, little man, let me school you in hood business
Seen a lot of niggas blow, lot of dreams folded
Some wasn't humble, ate too much, got bloated
Ain't too much left to buy, bought it, I'm loaded, I guess
Lear jets, I ask myself: do I need love or success?
They say the artist that truly suffers, his stuff is the best
'Cause his heart bleed on his sleeve: pain, pistols and sex
Remember spray paintin' the word "fresh" and then starin' at it
Older folks angry, pointin', swearin' at it
Buildings I sprayed, nowadays drive the McLaren past it
Same old man from years ago told me life is short
So from infant to geriatric, trust your own judgment
Live with it and love it

I want a bitch I can trust, some niggas I can trust
Accountants lookin' over my figures I can trust
A lawyer that's fightin' for my decisions I can trust
Damn my nigga, trust, I can never get enough
Or Rugers I can trust, shooters I can trust
Goons that know how to spot out a Judas I can trust
And if I can't trust you, the fuck is you here for?
Some of you niggas' true colors becomin' clear more

[Song 50: Black Republican]
[Intro: Jay-Z, (
Nas
) & 
both
]
I know you can feel the magic, baby
Turn the motherfuckin' lights down
Esco, whattup? (Whattup, homie?)
I mean, it's what you expected, ain't it? (Hahaha)
Let's go... 
uhh, uh, uhh, uh, uhh, uh
Turn the music up in the headphones
Uh, yeah, that's perfect (Yeah, right, right)
Uhh, uh, you gotta take ya time, make a nigga wait on this muh'fucka (Hahaha!)
Make niggas mad and shit like...
Niggas usually just start rappin' after four bars, "Nigga, go in!"
Just start dancin' in this muh'fucka
Yeah, (Yeah...) we just come outta nowhere

I feel like a Black Republican, money I got comin' in
Can't turn my back on the hood, I got love for them
Can't clean my act up for good, too much thug in him (
Nah
)
Probably end up back in the hood, like, "Fuck it then"
[Verse 1: Jay-Z, (
Nas
)]
Huddlin' over the oven, we was like brothers then (What?)
Though you was nothin' other than a son of my mother's friend
We had covenant, who would've thought the love would end?
Like Ice Cold's album (
Uhh
), "all good things..."
Never thought we'd sing the same song that all hoods sang
Thought it was all woodgrain, all good brain
We wouldn't bicker like the other fools, talk good game
Never imagine all the disaster that one good reign could bring
Should blame–the game, and I could
It's kill or be killed, how could I refrain?
And forever be in debt, and that's never a good thing
So the pressure for success can put a good strain
On a friend you call best, and yes, it could bring
Out the worst in every person, even the good and sane
Although, we rehearsed it, it just ain't the same
When you put in the game at age sixteen
Then you mix things, like cars, jewelry, and Miss Thing
Jealousy, ego, and pride, and this brings
It all to a head like a coin – cha-ching
The root of evil strikes again, this could sting
Now the team got beef, between the Post and the Point
This puts the ring in jeopardy, indefinitely

I feel like a black republican, money I got comin' in
Can't turn my back on the hood, I got love for them (Uhh, uhh)
Can't clean my act up for good, too much thug in him (
Nah
)
Probably end up back in the hood (
Uh
), I'm like, "Fuck it then"
I feel like a black militant takin' over the governmentCan't turn my back on the hood, too much love for them (Nah)
Can't clean my act up for good, too much thug in him
Probably end up back in the hood, I'm like, "Fuck it then"

I'm back in the hood, they like, "Hey, Nas" (
Uh
)
Blowin' on purp, reflectin' on they lives (
Uh
)
Couple of fat cats, couple of A.I.'s
Dreamin' of fly shit instead of them gray skies
Gray 5s, haters wishin' our reign dies
Pitch, sling pies, and niggas they sing, "Why"? (
Uhh
)
Guess they ain't strong enough to handle their jail time
Weak minds keep trying, follow the street signs
I'm standing on the roof of my building
I'm feelin' the whirlwind of beef, I inhale it
Just like an acrobat, ready to hurl myself through the hoops of fire
Sippin' 80 proof, bulletproof under my attire
Could it be the forces of darkness
Against hood angels of good that form street politics?
Makes a sweet honest kid turn illegal for commerce (
Uhh
)
To get his feet out of them Converse, that's my word

I feel like a Black Republican, money keep comin' in
Can't turn my back on the hood, I got love for them (Uhh, uhh)
Can't clean my act up for good, too much thug in him (
Nah
)
Probably end up back in the hood (
Uhh
), ah, "Fuck it then"
I feel like a black militant, takin' over the governmentCan't turn my back on the hood, too much love for them (I got love for them)
Can't clean my act up for good, too much thug in him
Probably end up back in the hood, I'm like, "Fuck it then"